of Gnaw. Gnawed. Chaucer. Gnu (?), n. [Hottentot gnu, or nju: cf. F. gnou.] (Zoˆl.) One of two species of large South African antelopes of the genus Catoblephas, having a mane and bushy tail, and curved horns in both sexes. [Written also gnoo.] The common gnu or wildebeest (Catoblephas gnu) is plain brown; the brindled gnu or blue wildebeest (C. gorgon) is larger, with transverse stripes of black on the neck and shoulders. Go (g), obs. p. p. of Go. Gone. Chaucer. Go, v. i. [imp. Went (wnt); p. p. Gone (gn; 115); p. pr. & vb. n. Going. Went comes from the AS, wendan. See Wend, v. i.] [OE. gan, gon, AS. gn, akin to D. gaan, G. gehn, gehen, OHG. gn, gn, SW. gÂ, Dan. gaae; cf. Gr. kicha`nai to reach, overtake, Skr. h to go, AS. gangan, and E. gang. The past tense in AS., eode, is from the root i to go, as is also Goth. iddja went. &radic;47a. Cf. Gang, v. i., Wend.] 1. To pass from one place to another; to be in motion; to be in a state not motionless or at rest; to proceed; to advance; to make progress; -- used, in various applications, of the movement of both animate and inanimate beings, by whatever means, and also of the movements of the mind; also figuratively applied. 2. To move upon the feet, or step by step; to walk; also, to walk step by step, or leisurely. In old writers go is much used as opposed to run, or ride. "Whereso I go or ride." Chaucer. You know that love Will creep in service where it can not go. Shak. Thou must run to him; for thou hast staid so long that going will scarce serve the turn. Shak. He fell from running to going, and from going to clambering upon his hands and his knees. Bunyan. In Chaucer go is used frequently with the pronoun in the objective used reflexively; as, he goeth him home. 3. To be passed on fron one to another; to pass; to circulate; hence, with for, to have currency; to be taken, accepted, or regarded. The man went among men for an old man in the days of Saul. 1 Sa. xvii. 12. [The money] should go according to its true value. Locke. 4. To proceed or happen in a given manner; to fare; to move on or be carried on; to have course; to come to an issue or result; to succeed; to turn out. How goes the night, boy ? Shak. I think, as the world goes, he was a good sort of man enough. Arbuthnot. Whether the cause goes for me or against me, you must pay me the reward. I Watts. 5. To proceed or tend toward a result, consequence, or product; to tend; to conduce; to be an ingredient; to avail; to apply; to contribute; -- often with the infinitive; as, this goes to show. Against right reason all your counsels go. Dryden. To master the foul flend there goeth some complement knowledge of theology. Sir W. Scott. 6. To apply one's self; to set one's self; to undertake. Seeing himself confronted by so many, like a resolute orator, he went not to denial, but to justify his cruel falsehood. Sir P. Sidney. Go, in this sense, is often used in the present participle with the auxiliary verb to be, before an infinitive, to express a future of intention, or to denote design; as, I was going to say; I am going to begin harvest. <! p. 635 !> 7. To proceed by a mental operation; to pass in mind or by an act of the memory or imagination; -- generally with over or through. By going over all these particulars, you may receive some tolerable satisfaction about this great subject. South. 8. To be with young; to be pregnant; to gestate. The fruit she goes with, I pray for heartily, that it may find Good time, and live. Shak. 9. To move from the person speaking, or from the point whence the action is contemplated; to pass away; to leave; to depart; -- in opposition to stay and come. I will let you go, that ye may sacrifice to the Lord your God; . . . only ye shall not go very far away. Ex. viii. 28. 10. To pass away; to depart forever; to be lost or ruined; to perish; to decline; to decease; to die. By Saint George, he's gone! That spear wound hath our master sped. Sir W. Scott. 11. To reach; to extend; to lead; as, a line goes across the street; his land goes to the river; this road goes to New York. His amorous expressions go no further than virtue may allow. Dryden. 12. To have recourse; to resort; as, to go to law. Go is used, in combination with many prepositions and adverbs, to denote motion of the kind indicated by the preposition or adverb, in which, and not in the verb, lies the principal force of the expression; as, to go against to go into, to go out, to go aside, to go astray, etc. Go to, come; move; go away; -- a phrase of exclamation, serious or ironical. -- To go a- begging, not to be in demand; to be undesired. -- To go about. (a) To set about; to enter upon a scheme of action; to undertake. "They went about to slay him." Acts ix. 29. They never go about . . . to hide or palliate their vices. Swift. (b) (Naut.) To tack; to turn the head of a ship; to wear. -- To go abraod. (a) To go to a foreign country. (b) To go out of doors. (c) To become public; to be published or disclosed; to be current. Then went this saying abroad among the brethren. John xxi. 23. -- To go against. (a) To march against; to attack.