2 Doctors of medicine who have been custodians of the people's health for many centuries have seldom been food scientists. Most of them attempt to combat disease with drugs. Now we are beginning to learn the truth about the origin of disease and in considering the body as a human engine, to take into consideration the all-important question of fuel. [Sidenote: Tendency of the modern physician toward food science] That the most learned physicians are drifting more and more toward scientific feeding and natural remedies is a matter of common knowledge. This splendid army of laborers in the great field of human suffering is made up largely of what is termed the _Modern Doctor_--the man who is brave enough to think and to act according to his better judgment. Just to the extent that we understand the origin of drugs, and the drugging system of treating dis-ease, we turn instinctively _from them_, and instinctively _toward_ food, for in drugs we find an ancient system of guesswork, while in food we find fundamental principles and primary causes. The majority of causes are removed when the diet is made to fit our physical condition and environment, and we then become normal by the process of animal evolution, Nature merely bestowing upon us our birthright because we have obeyed her laws. 3 The true science of human nutrition can be evolved only from an accurate knowledge of both food chemistry and of physiological chemistry. [Sidenote: Why food chemistry and physiological chemistry have not been united] The science of physiological chemistry has been known and taught for more than one hundred years, while the science of food chemistry is of recent origin. These two branches have been kept separate because they grew up at different periods of time. United they constitute the greatest science known to mankind, because they affect his health, his happiness, his life, and above all they measure the period of time he will live. Physiological chemistry tells what the body is and its needs--food chemistry tells how to supply these needs. Recognizing these facts, I have merely united these hitherto unapplied branches of science, and have made of the union the science of Applied Food Chemistry, which makes practical that which has heretofore been confined mainly to theory. LESSON II SIMPLE PRINCIPLES OF GENERAL CHEMISTRY [Sidenote: Relation of chemistry to food science] If the student is versed in chemistry, this lesson will serve merely as a review; if not, somewhat close attention must be given to facts which at first may seem uninteresting. Patience should be exercised, for, while all the information herein given does not, taken as a whole, bear directly upon the subjects of health and dis-ease, yet with this knowledge it will be much less difficult to understand the principles which are applied later when we take up the chemistry of the body and the chemistry of food. Chemistry is not, as popularly supposed, a science far removed from everyday life. Everyone has some knowledge of chemistry, but the chemist has observed things more minutely and therefore more accurately understands the composition of substances and the changes that are everywhere taking place. For illustration: A cook starts a fire in a stove. She knows that the fire must have "air" or it will not burn; that when the fire is first lighted, it "smokes" heavily, but as it burns more, it smokes less; further, that if the damper in the pipe is closed the "gas" will escape in to the room. [Sidenote: Fire, gas, and smoke the result of chemical changes] The chemist also knows this, but because he has compared his observations with similar events elsewhere, he is enabled to express his knowledge in the language of science. To the chemist, fire is the process of combustion--the union of the oxygen of the air with the carbon and hydrogen compounds of the wood or of the coal. The heat of the fire is generated by this chemical union. To the chemist, the smoke is a natural phenomenon occasioned by particles of carbon which fail to unite with the oxygen gas. The gas, which to the woman suggests suffocation if enough of it escapes into the room, to the chemist suggests a compound resulting from combination of the oxygen with the carbon. CHEMICAL ELEMENTS To the chemist, all forms of matter are mere combinations of elements. Chemical analysis is a process of separating, dividing, and subdividing matter. When the chemist separates or analyzes compounds, until he can no longer simplify or subdivide them, he calls these simple products "chemical elements." [Sidenote: Common elements] Many of the chemical elements are well known, such as copper, iron, and gold. Other elements that are still more common are unknown in their elementary form, because they combine with other elements so readily that they exist in nature only as compounds. For example: Hydrogen, united with oxygen, forms water; the elements chlorin and sodium, combined or united, form common salt.