Social wasps are particularly dangerous because a disturbance of their nest may result in attack by numerous wasps. Avoidance/Control. Avoid garbage accumulation sites, which attract wasps. To avoid wasp stings, recognizing the nests of the dangerous species in the local area, is important. If possible, remove and destroy all nests found around inhabited areas. Wasps can be controlled by treating their nests with insecticide—preferably at night, when the wasps are least active. Treat nests found above the ground with a commercial wasp spray or other insecticide recommended by an entomologist. To treat wasp nests in the ground or in houses, a 5% carbaryl dust may be used.[38] Envenomization Reaction/Treatment. (See appendix.) URTICATING/VESICATING ARTHROPODS 1. BLISTER BEETLES (Order: Coleoptera; Family: Meloidae) [Illustration: (unlabelled)] Identification. The Meloidae are narrow elongate beetles characterized by a “neck” (pronotum) which is distinctly narrower than its head or wings. Adult beetles range in body length from 1 to 2 cm (0.4-0.8 in) and vary considerably in their coloration. Distribution. In general, blister beetles are found in greater numbers in the western half of the United States.[5] Biology/Behavior. The immature stages of the blister beetle are usually predacious on other insects and are not harmful to man. Adult blister beetles release a clear amber fluid by rupture of thin membranes in the leg joints or other segmented areas of the body. The release of this fluid, which contains a vesicating agent called cantharidin, is triggered by pressure against the body of the beetle. Light pressure exerted by clothing or by brushing off a beetle is usually sufficient to cause the release of its vesicating fluid. The adult blister beetles are readily attracted to bright white light, and many cases of human exposure occur at night around such lights. Since the adults are plant feeders, some cases of human vesication occur as persons move through vegetation infested with blister beetles. Avoidance/Control. In areas with an abundance of blister beetles, use yellow light bulbs for outdoor lighting. If a meloid beetle lands on the skin, blow it off, do not crush it. Since cantharidin is distributed throughout the beetle’s body, crushing the beetle against exposed skin would result in maximum cantharidin exposure. Dermatoses resulting from blister beetle contact are seasonal, with the greatest number of vesicating incidents in the United States occurring in July, August, and September. Chemical control usually is not recommended because of the mobility and wide distribution of blister beetles. Envenomization Reaction/Treatment. This information is not included in the appendix because the envenomization reaction generally consists of a superficial linear bulla which does not require emergency treatment. 2. URTICATING CATERPILLARS a. IO MOTH CATERPILLAR (_Automeris io_) [Illustration: (unlabelled)] Identification. The _Automeris io_ caterpillar is the larva of the Io moth, which belongs to the moth family Saturniidae. A full-grown caterpillar is about 5 to 8 cm (2-3 in) long, pale green, with lateral strips of red or maroon over white running the length of the body. Near the center of each body segment is a partial row of tubercles armed with radiating green and black spines. Many of these spines are venomous, and their tips are connected to rather large individualized poison glands. Distribution. In the United States, the Io moth is found in the states east of the Rocky Mountains.[68] Biology/Behavior. Io moth larvae feed on the leaves of a variety of plants, including corn and willow.[17] In most areas they produce only one annual generation, emerging as a moth in the spring or summer and overwintering as a pupa. In south Texas, however, two generations occur, with one developing in May-July and the second in October-December. Therefore, the urticating larval stages can be found anytime from early spring to late fall, depending upon the area of the country and climatic conditions. As with most urticating caterpillars, _A. io_ envenomizations normally occur when the victim inadvertently contacts caterpillar-infested vegetation. At the instant the victim’s skin touches this caterpillar, the spine tips break off in the skin, thus allowing toxin to flow out of the hollow spines and onto the skin. Avoidance/Control. Wear gloves, a long-sleeved shirt, and long pants when working in an infested area. Children should be warned not to handle caterpillars. If necessary, infested vegetation may be treated with an appropriate insecticide. Envenomization Reaction/Treatment. (See appendix.) b. PUSS CATERPILLAR (Megalopyge opercularis) [Illustration: (unlabelled)] Identification.