That's what my ideal comes to, Jack--not a very lofty one after all.' 'I don't know but that the clever women make the best housewives after all,' remarked Roberts, puffing thoughtfully away. 'My brother now--he married a girl just because she was a sweet, soft, amiable little thing; thinking that after knocking about the world a good deal, he should like a quiet comfortable home. He was not violently in love with Amy, but had a notion of settling down to domestic life. Well, she turned out the most incapable idiot; is given over to nerves, hysterics, all sorts of fancies; cries when he's out after ten, faints if he finds fault with her. It isn't her fault--there's no vice in her; she hasn't the _stuff_ in her, that's all. My sister Maude, again--you remember her, Earle?' 'Yes. A fine girl; lots of go in her.' 'Rather too much, we thought. She was a bit of a flirt--but as clever as she could be. Well, she married a quiet, steady-going fellow we all said she would henpeck. I tell you, Will, they are a model couple! Maude makes a splendid wife, and it's the pleasantest house to stay in that I know. The husband always says the "clever women" are the cleverest all round.' 'Well, it's time we were off. Let's postpone the discussion _sine die_.' * * * * * Shortly after the foregoing dialogue, Wilfred Earle and his friend found themselves in the midst of a pretty considerable number of people entering the doors of a certain Literary Institute in one of the Surrey suburbs of London. The audience was mostly composed of well-dressed people; but there was also a tolerable gathering of trades-people and artisans in the back of the room. Earle and Roberts took their seat in a corner of one of the windows, intending to be unobserved; but they soon perceived a little lady, of a lively appearance, with bobbing gray curls and very small hands, which she kept in perpetual motion. One of these hands--incased in an exquisite glove--was waving and beckoning to them in an agitated manner. Simply bowing in return was no avail, the waving got more energetic, and Earle perceived he would have to obey the summons. The little lady was not going to lose the chance of catching even an incipient lion; and Earle was a rising man, and was beginning to be talked about. 'Bother it!' he murmured; 'there's that bore, Mrs De Lacy! I shall have to go to her. She is the most persistent woman I know, and the most crotchety. I believe woman's rights and wrongs are her latest craze. Come along, Roberts, and protect me.' So the two men made their way to the front row, where sat Mrs De Lacy and her satellites. As for Mr De Lacy, no one ever thought about him. He was Mrs De Lacy's husband, and did very well at the foot of the table at dinner-parties, offering good wine to his guests. This, by the way, was the sole point where he dared act independently. Mrs De Lacy was a rigid teetotaler, as well as a spiritualist, mesmerist, anti-vaccinationist, phrenologist, all the rest of it--a woman of theories; worked upon by every novelty, and the easy prey of any plausible adventurer. She had her virtues, shallow, conceited, egotistical as she was. She was kind-hearted and benevolent, only, unfortunately, her benefactions were generally wrongly directed. 'Here you are at last, naughty man!' she cried, giving Earle both her hands at once, to his no small embarrassment, as he did not know what to do with them, and would gladly have passed one on to Roberts, who was trying to hide a smile. 'What have you to say for yourself? I am very, very angry with you!' 'Indeed! I am deeply grieved! What have I done now, Mrs De Lacy?' 'Need you ask? Pray, how long is it since you were in Pembroke Terrace, sir?' 'You must really forgive me. I have been very much pushed with finishing a commission picture.' 'Well I will on two conditions, grant you pardon.' 'Pray name them.' 'One is that you dine with us to-morrow; to meet--but I won't tell you whom.' 'Is that a punishment? It is a very merciful one.' 'Ah, you have not heard the second condition. Mr De Lacy is foolish enough to want to have a portrait of my poor faded face, and I only agreed on condition that _you_ painted it.' It was as much as Earle could do to keep up an expression of complacency. He could not refuse; but it was no light penance to him--who disliked mere portrait-painting at the best--to be condemned to make a picture of Mrs De Lacy's little foolish face. However, he consented, as he could not well get out of it. 'Now that is settled,' continued the lady, 'sit down here and be charmed. Stay; I do believe you are one of the unconverted--of the old school in that respect, though your pictures are of the new. Well then, prepare to be converted. I shall give you up for ever if you are not enchanted with my Silvia.' 'Your Silvia! May I ask who she is?' 'Look at your prospectus, sir: "Miss Stirling will address the meeting."' 'And is Miss Stirling your Silvia?' 'Yes; to be sure.