"That's a queer girl; but a real one," he told himself as he toiled up the trail. "Wonder why she beat out those signals on the drum if she didn't want those natives to meet? Who is she? Where's her home? Will we meet again?" He hoped so. Yet in this strange old world one never could tell. The night was well spent. His eyes were heavy with sleep. At this elevation there were no flying pests. The trail was still long. It would be there in the morning. Selecting a gently sloping bank beneath a tropical oak, he gathered moss from low hanging branches to form a pillow. He then threw himself upon the earth, closed his eyes and fell asleep. CHAPTER IX THE JEWELED MONKEY Johnny Thompson did not in the least mind being lost. Truth was he got much joy from it. The sky was so blue, the morning air, as he left the abandoned native home, so crisp and balmy, he felt like singing a song. True, he disliked worrying his friends, but the island of Haiti is not the world. He would find his way back in time. He had breakfasted well on cold guinea meat, parched corn and bananas. His bow and quiver of arrows were slung across his back. The trail was before him. "With wild fruit and game I could live a half year through," he told himself. For some time he made his way through rough uplands, where trees and brush obstructed his travel and only wild trails helped him on his way. At last, however, he came upon an ancient man-made trail that led over a ridge and down upon the other side. "Now I shall find my way to somewhere," he told himself. But this trail ran through rough uncultivated land. Mid-afternoon found him apparently some distance still from human habitation. "Oh well," he sighed dropping down beside a cool spring, "the afternoon is hot. Guess I'll rest a while. The evening will be cool." Had he persevered for another quarter of a mile he most surely would have met with a surprise; for there browsing close to the trail was a donkey, and on his back were two empty hampers. A few yards up the bank in the deep shade, he might have discovered two unusual patches of color, one orange, the other red. The orange spot was a white girl's jacket, the red a native girl's dress. Had he explored still further he would have found that the two girls were resting from the heat of the day. And these girls, as you may have guessed, were Doris and Nieta. They had chosen to return home from the ancient fort by a new and little used trail. Midas had not liked the plan. He had shown his displeasure by using a snail-like pace and by offering to eat every tree and bush that grew beside the trail. At last, quite worn out by her constant flogging of the obstinate donkey Doris had given in to his whims and had allowed him to wander as he willed while she and Nieta rested. "You can't lose a donkey," she had said to Nieta. "Not completely. He'll always find his way home. And he has nothing on his back but empty hampers." They had been sitting there for some time dreamily gazing at the wavering patterns of sunlight and shadows woven on the mossy earth or looking up into the treetops when Doris gave a sudden start. Her eye had caught a peculiar gleam of white light. "What can it be?" she asked herself. "There is nothing about a palm tree to reflect light that way." She puzzled about this for some time. Then, since her keen eyes did not succeed in detecting the cause, she fell to wondering about Midas who had disappeared down the trail. "If he's gone home by himself it will be a blessing," she told herself. "There are no lions and tigers to fear here. There are some very terrible snakes and lizards five feet long and wild hogs with tusks like razor blades, but they're not likely to trouble us. We--" She broke short off to stare. Once more in the midst of dense foliage she had caught that white flash of light. So white! So intense! Like the flash that comes from a mirror, only sharper and brighter. She caught her breath. There it was again. Here it was, there. Now, like a glimmering ghost, it was gone. "Quick as lightning." She glanced through the leafy branches to the sky. Pale blue the sky was, not a cloud. She had suspected lightning. "But no," she told herself, "it's four hours before shower-time." Showers come with a convenient regularity in Haiti. She studied the scanty leaves and many dry pods that hung directly above her. They had seated themselves beneath a "chattering woman," or so this odd tree is called. It was loaded with dry pods. These pods rattle and chatter in the wind. At this moment there was no wind. Slowly her eyes roved over the dangling pods. Then, of a sudden, her gaze became fixed, her lips parted in a scream that died in forming. Directly above her, peering down at her, was the smallest, strangest little face she had ever seen. The eyes were so wide in question, the brow so wrinkled, the whole expression so broadly intelligent that for the briefest part of a moment she was tempted to believe the creature human.