The first three or four days were calm, hot, and smoky--an appearance which attends all similar periods more or less, refracting the red ray of the light, and giving the sun a peculiar dry-weather, red appearance. (This smoky haze is usually atmospheric, and occasionally seen even in March, although not unfrequently fires in the woods fill the air with actual smoke, and very much increase it, and when this is so, the odor of the smoke is often perceptible.) Then we began to have a fresh south-west by south breeze in the day-time, hauling to the south-west, and dying away at nightfall. The next day, the tendency to condensation and consequent belt of showers having extended further south and approached nearer to us, the S. S. W. wind blew _fresher_ toward it, and _did not die away at nightfall_. During the evening the reflection of the lightning playing upon the tops of the thunder clouds, just visible at the north (heat-lightning, it is termed, because supposed to be unaccompanied by thunder, but in reality lightning reflected from clouds at too great a distance for the thunder to be heard), and the continuance of the southerly wind after nightfall, gave sure evidence of the coming showers the next day, and an end of the excessive heat for that time. So ended both of those long-to-be-remembered "heated terms" of 1853. The same is probably true of the interior of the country every where. Lieutenant Maury, in the course of his investigations, and in order to ascertain the direction of the winds in the Mississippi valley during rain, addressed a number of gentlemen, and received their replies, which are published with his wind and current charts. Several answered, among other things, that, "whenever the lightning appears to linger at the north at eventide, rain almost invariably follows speedily; not so in the south." Thus it frequently is with us. If, during a hot, dry time, of a few days continuance, the lightning so lingers in the evening, and the wind continues to blow _fresh_ from the southward _after nightfall_, showers will generally follow within forty-eight hours, most commonly the next day, and a cool N. N. W. or N. W. wind with a favorable change ensue. Such, at least, has been the result of my observation for many years. Indeed this seems to be the general law in summer in the Mississippi valley, where the easterly winds are not so common as with us. To illustrate this further, I copy from a recent work by T. Bassnett, entitled the "Mechanical Theory of Storms," two short extracts, showing the manner in which belts of showers extend southerly, while progressing north-eastwardly, at Ottawa. The first occurred in August, 1853; the last, December, 1852. The first was a belt of showers; the latter would have been in August, but the lateness of the season changed its character somewhat, though not entirely, to a more regular rain, especially toward the close. "AUGUST 6th.--Very fine and clear all day: wind from S. W.; a light breeze; 8 P.M. frequent flashes of lightning in the northern sky; 10 P.M., a _low bank of dense clouds in north_, fringed with cirri, visible during the flash of the lightning; 12 P.M., same continues. "7th.--very fine and clear morning; wind S. W. moderate; noon, clouds accumulating in the northern half of the sky; _wind fresher_, _S. W._; 3 P.M., a clap of thunder over head, and black cumuli in west, north, and east; 4 P.M., much thunder and scattered showers; six miles west rained very heavily; 6 P.M., the heavy clouds passing over to the south; 10 P.M., clear again in north. "8th.--Clear all day; wind the same (S. W.); a hazy bank visible all along on _southern horizon_. "DECEMBER 21st, 1852.--Wind N. E., fine weather. "22d.--Thick, hazy morning, wind east, much lighter in S. E. than in N. W.; 8 A.M., a clear arch in S. E. getting more to south; noon, _very black in W. N. W._; above, a broken layer of cirro-cumulus, the sun visible sometimes through the waves; wind around to S. E., and fresher; getting thicker all day; 10 P.M., _wind south, strong_; thunder, lightning, and heavy rain all night, with strong squalls from south. "23d.--Wind S. W., moderate, drizzly day; 10 P.M., wind west, and getting clearer." It is obvious that the showers at the north passed east on the evening of the 6th of August; that new showers, taking the same course, originated in the north, but more southerly next day, with S. W. wind, and that they passed east, and others formed successively further south, which passed over the place of observation late in the afternoon, and that others formed south and passed east during the night and next day, visible in a bank on the southern horizon. Later or earlier in the spring and autumn, these brisk afternoon southerly winds continuing after nightfall, indicate moderate rains from a rainy belt extending in a similar manner, without the cumuli and thunder which attend those of mid-summer. I shall recur to this class of showers and storms when we come to their classification.