As their agent, I secretly entered the warehouse in which your hoard of sugar was stored, and secreted in various spots amidst the innocent condiment no less than twelve pounds of arsenic. After having done this, I notified your partner, the aforesaid diabolical Tollgate, of my action, and apprised him that all the sugar must be destroyed,--else poison would be thrown broadcast upon the world. You, as his partner, are affected with notice of this. (As a foe to capital, I have incidentally been trained as a lawyer.) The aforesaid diabolical Tollgate, with your connivance,”--Damn law words. I hate ’em--“With your connivance sold the sugar. Through secret channels the deadly grains of arsenic are distilled into the veins of society. The blushing damsel, receiving taffy from her lover, curls up and dies. The fond mother, pouring out her children’s cambric tea, gives them the black wine of death. Candy-shops are charnel-houses! Society gatherings are volcanos! Ice-cream leads to the grave! And all through you, most miserable of mortals, who lie soft and count your ill-gotten wealth.” (_Enter_ MARY JANE _with coffee. He starts to drink_.) “But even you are not exempt from the insidious enemy. The very cup of coffee that you may now be raising to your lips may call you to judgment.” (_Drops coffee cup._) What sinful nonsense. I shouldn’t give it a thought if it didn’t charge my poor dead partner with such villany. And Tollgate was a Sunday-school superintendent. (_Enter_ MARY JANE _with breakfast_.) MARY JANE. The letter’s mailed, sir. TWITTERS. Letter? What do you know about the letter? MARY JANE. Sure, you gave it to me, sir. TWITTERS. No such thing. Ah, to be sure! How absurd to be so discomposed. So breakfast’s ready? MARY JANE (_arranging table_). Yes, sir. TWITTERS (_after a short pause, during which he has fidgeted_). By the way, Mary Jane, you haven’t happened to hear much illness about of late. Have you? MARY JANE. Why, sir, there has been folks go off sudden. TWITTERS. You don’t say so? Who? MARY JANE. Well, sir; there was poor Mr. Tollgate. TWITTERS. Apoplexy--apoplexy, beyond all doubt. Caused by the success of our corner. MARY JANE. Then, sir, there was my grandmother, only last week, sir. TWITTERS. Yes, I remember. But I’ve remarked that that melancholy event has happened twenty-seven times in the course of the year. I infer that your grandfather was a Mormon. MARY JANE. Which I consider that remark most unfeeling, sir. And what with waiting on the mother of the late Mrs. Twitters, sir, and getting two breakfasts for you, and having my own grandfather abused, sir, I cannot submit to it, sir. TWITTERS. Leave the room, girl. MARY JANE. Which I shall take pleasure in leaving, sir, this day week, sir. (_Exit._) TWITTERS (_playing with breakfast things_). All right. It’s absurd to think of this matter. In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred an anonymous letter is a lie, but if this should turn out to be the hundredth I should be a Borgia. Heavens. What a situation. Why, even my poor daughter would be blighted. I could never permit her to marry and to perpetuate a crime-stained race. I wonder what the effect of arsenic is. Happy thought. I’ll look it up in my encyclopædia. Glad to put the thing to some use. (_Takes down the volume._) A-r-t--a-r-s-e-n-i-c. That’s it. (_Reads._) “Arsenic is one of the most violent of the acrid poisons. Its use in medicine and toxicological properties are treated under medical jurisprudence.” Damn it. Just my luck. (_Looks at bookcase again._) My set stops at “Lam.” Pooh! Pooh! Why, even if the whole thing were true, twelve pounds. (_Looks at letter._) Yes, he says twelve pounds--in a whole warehouse full of sugar wouldn’t do more than improve the complexion of the public. I should be a benefactor. (_Enter Charles and Clara._) CLARA. Is breakfast all ready, papa, dear? I’m dreadfully hungry. TWITTERS. Quite ready, dear. CHARLES. Where shall I put this? It’s very heavy. TWITTERS. Heavy? CHARLES. Yes, you see it is quite full of water. I’m afraid of wetting the carpet, you see. CLARA. Why! Sure enough! We forgot to water the flowers! TWITTERS. Forgot it, eh? Young people have queer memories, nowadays. Put that confounded thing in the hall, Charles. You are a medical man. How do you account for the curious prevalence of sudden death? CHARLES (_returning from hall door_). Why, I haven’t thought much about it. TWITTERS. The newspapers talk about arsenic in wall papers. Nonsense, don’t you think so? CHARLES (_soaring to professional fluency_). Not a bit of it. Arsenic is the most deadly of drugs. TWITTERS. Oh, you don’t say so? CLARA. What a disagreeable subject! Come to breakfast, papa dear. (_At table._) TWITTERS. Stop, Clara, we are not ready for food; I am interested in this matter. How deadly is arsenic--how much would kill? CHARLES. Well, in wall-papers it’s one thing; in the stomach, it is another. TWITTERS. Take stomachs. I’m interested. CHARLES. It’s only common prudence to have your wall-paper tested (_looking at paper_); I don’t like that green. TWITTERS.