Fig. 4.--Comparative Size of the Planets Mercury, Venus, the Earth, and Mars.] The inclination of the axis of the terrestrial sphere is 23° which is a considerable deviation, and occasions great differences in the duration of days and of seasons on different points of our globe. The inclination of the axis of the planet Mercury is enormous: it is 70°. This planet bends over itself as if about to fall. Hence results prodigious variation of light and heat on the same parallel, and seasons whose abrupt changes must be painful and hard to bear by the inhabitants of this planet, if such inhabitants exist. Mercury is five times less than the Earth, as is shown in plate 4. Venus comes after Mercury, according to distance from the Sun. Venus, which is 27,000,000 of leagues from the Sun, receives twice as much light and heat as our globe. Its days are of nearly the same length as ours (23 hours, 21 minutes), but its year, necessarily shorter than that of the Earth, since it is nearer to the Sun, lasts only 224 days. Its seasons last two months each. Its globe is nearly of the same bulk as that of the Earth. Venus is almost always wrapped in clouds, which must fall in rain, forming rivers and seas. These waters refresh the plains, which must be scorched by the heat of the burning sun. The seasons are still shorter and more unequal in Venus than in Mercury; its axis is, in fact, inclined at 75°. After Venus comes the Earth, which is almost of the same bulk, but 28,000,000 of leagues from the Sun. Its diameter is nearly 3000 leagues. It accomplishes its revolution on its axis in 24 hours (23 hours, 56 minutes, 4 seconds), and in 365 days, 5 hours its revolution around the sun. The inclination of the Earth's axis is 23°, which produces the differences of days and nights, and the inequality of the seasons, according to latitude. The Earth possesses a privilege denied to the planets Mercury, Venus, and Mars; she has a secondary star, or satellite, called the Moon. Placed at a distance of only 90,000 leagues from the Earth, the Moon accomplishes her revolution around it in 27 days. It is not the object of this work to give any description of our globe. We will suppose our readers to be sufficiently acquainted with it, and pass on to the planet which comes next to it in the scale of distance from the Sun. This is the planet Mars. An extraordinary resemblance exists between Mars and the Earth. Physical, geographical, and climatological conditions, days and nights, seasons, celestial perspectives, all are alike in these two planets, with the sole difference that the globe of Mars is half as small again as that of the Earth; so that, if a man were transported to Mars, he might believe himself to be, not in a strange planet, but in a little known corner of the Earth, such as Australia or Polynesia. As we pursue our journey through the heavens, ever increasing our distance from the Sun, we shall find, after Mars, the group of the Asteroïds. We shall not linger before this cluster of small stars, which is no doubt nothing but a collection of the dismembered fragments of a planet, which formerly existed in this particular point of space, and was dashed to pieces by some formidable accident in the universe. These little stars, like the important planets, have each their names, such as _Vesta_, _Pallas_, _Circe_, &c., &c. _Maximiliana_, and _Feronia_ are placed at the two extremities, with respect to distance from the Sun. These remains of a broken star continue to circulate around the Sun, like the planet which they formerly composed. After the Asteroïds comes great Jupiter. Jupiter is the largest planetary sphere in our solar system, being 1400 times greater than the Earth. Its distance from the Sun is 200,000,000 miles. In consequence of this distance, its year is as long as twelve of our years. Notwithstanding its colossal dimensions, Jupiter turns with such rapidity upon its axis, that it accomplishes an entire revolution in twelve hours, so that its day and night are respectively only ten hours long. The shortness of Jupiter's nights are compensated by the existence of four moons, or satellites, which revolve around this planet, and give it permanent light. This illumination by reflection, added to very long twilights, must make Jupiter's nights nearly equal to the day in brightness. Though Jupiter suffers under the disadvantage of very short days, it has on the other hand the inappreciable advantage of perfect equality in the length of its days and nights, and of that of the four seasons over all its parallels. The axis of Jupiter is hardly at all oblique, and therefore Jupiter, like the planet Saturn, enjoys a sort of perpetual spring, that is to say, an equable distribution of solar heat and light along the same degrees of latitude. Jupiter, unlike Mars and Venus, has no vicissitudes of seasons, no sudden and painful transitions from cold to heat in the same place. The climates are invariable in each latitude, and the seasons are hardly discernible.