I felt there was something wrong with you when I had no word." She carefully laid the sleeping child on the couch and returned to embrace her husband. "Don't, Mary!" said he, keeping her back. "Oh, James dear!" she said, clasping her hands. "What has gone wrong? You look worn to death!" "Everything's gone wrong, Mary!" he answered. "My whole life's gone wrong!" "What do you mean?" she asked in breathless terror. "What have you in your hand?" He held out to her the letter, and sat down and covered his face. "Oh, but this is good news, James!" she exclaimed. "You are elected minister at Upton!" "I can't go, Mary! I can no longer be minister there or anywhere!" "James, my darling!" She knelt beside him, and put her arms about him. "Something has happened to you! Tell me what it is!" But he held his peace. "Remember, my dear, that we are all the world to each other; remember that when we were married we said we should never have any secret from each other! Tell me your trouble, my dear!" He could not resist her appeal: he told her the whole story. "My poor, dear love!" she cried. "How terribly tried you have been! And I did not know it!" [Illustration: "DON'T, MARY!"] "And you don't shrink from me, Mary?" said he. "Shrink from you, my dear husband?" she demanded. "How can you ask me? Oh, my darling!" She kissed his hands and his face, and covered him with her love and wept over him. They sat in silence for a while, and then he told her what he proposed to do. She agreed with him that that was the proper thing. "We must do the first thing that is right, whatever may happen to ourselves. Write and say that you do not feel you can take more than the morning service. I'll go with you, and you shall do as you say--and the rest is with God." Thus it was arranged. And on Sunday morning they set off together for Upton, leaving the boy in the care of the landlady. They had no word to say to each other in the train, but they held close each other's hand. They avoided greetings, and introductions, and felicitations save from one or two by keeping close in the vestry till the hour struck, and the attendant came to usher the minister to the pulpit. He went out and up the pulpit stairs with a firm step, but his face was very pale, his lips were parched, and his heart was thumping hard, till he felt as if it would burst. The first part of the service was gone through, and the minister rose to deliver his sermon. He gave out his text, "_And Cain said unto the Lord, 'My punishment is greater than I can bear!'_" and glanced round upon the congregation, who sat up wondering what was to come of that. He repeated it, and happening to look down, saw seated immediately below the pulpit, looking as well and self-satisfied as usual, the young man whom he had imagined crushed in the tunnel! The revulsion of feeling was too great; the minister put up his hand to his head, with a cry something between sob and sigh, tottered, and fell back! There was a flutter and a rustle of dismay throughout the congregation. The minister's wife was up the pulpit stairs in an instant, and she was followed by the chairman and the young Mr. Lloyd. Between them they carried the minister down into the vestry, where a few others presently assembled. "Will you run for a doctor, Mr. Lloyd?" said the chairman. Hearing the name "Lloyd," and seeing a man in minister's attire, Mrs. Murray guessed the truth at once. "I think," said she, "there is no need for a doctor, my husband has only fainted. He has been terribly worried all the year, and the last week or two especially has told on him." "I thought the other night," said the chairman, "that he looked ill." "He has not been well since," said she; and she continued, turning to Mr. Lloyd, "I believe he was the more upset that he thought an accident had happened to you in the train, Mr. Lloyd." "Oh," said the young man, "it was nothing. It really served me right for leaning against a door that was unlatched. I picked myself up all right." The chairman and the others stared; they clearly had heard nothing of that. "He is coming round," said the wife. "If someone will kindly get me a cab, I'll take him home." * * * * * That is the story of the unconfessed crime of the minister of Upton Chapel, who is to-day known as a gentle, sweet, and somewhat shy man, good to all, and especially tender and patient with all wrong-doers. [Illustration] _At the Children's Hospital._ [Illustration: CONVALESCENT HOME, HIGHGATE.] "We want to move Johnny to a place where there are none but children; a place set up on purpose for sick children; where the good doctors and nurses pass their lives with children, talk to none but children, touch none but children, comfort and cure none but children." Who does not remember that chapter in "Our Mutual Friend" in which Charles Dickens described Johnny's removal--with his Noah's Ark and his noble wooden steed--from the care of poor old Betty to that of the Hospital for Sick Children in Great Ormond-street?