The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Nature of a Gospel Church, by John Church


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: The Nature of a Gospel Church
       a confession of Evangelical Principles


Author: John Church



Release Date: October 3, 2018  [eBook #58014]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE NATURE OF A GOSPEL CHURCH***


Transcribed from the [1814?] R. Thomas edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org

                   [Picture: Public domain book cover]





                               _THE NATURE_
                                   OF A
                              GOSPEL CHURCH:


                      _A CONFESSION OF EVANGELICAL_
                              _PRINCIPLES:_

                                   AND

                          THE MEMBERS’ COVENANT.

                         Intended for the Use of

                          The Church of Christ.

                                * * * * *

                              BY J. CHURCH,
                 Minister of the Gospel, Obelisk Chapel.

                                * * * * *

    EXODUS xxv, 40.  Look that thou make all things according to the
    Pattern shewed thee in the Mount.

    JUDE.  Contend earnestly for the Faith once delivered to the Saints.

    1 COR. i, 10.  That ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind,
    and in the same judgment.

                                * * * * *

                                Southwark:
             Printed by R. THOMAS, Red Lion Street, Borough.

                                * * * * *




THE NATURE OF
A GOSPEL CHURCH, &c.


    EPH. V. 23.  CHRIST is the Head of the Church.

    ACTS vii, 28.  This is he that was in the Church in the Wilderness.

    REV. ii, 27.  All the Churches shall know I am he.

    EPH. iii, 21.  To Him be glory in the Church.

                                * * * * *

_TO the congregational Churches of Jesus Christ_, _particularly that one
over which the Holy Ghost hath made me an Overseer_: _Grace be to you
all_.  _Amen_.—I thought it necessary to write to you on some Subjects
which are very interesting, and to give you in sundry articles, the
particulars of the Faith we profess, as believers in our most adorable
Redeemer; with a few agreements which claim the conformity of all those
who have given themselves up to the Lord, to walk in all well pleasing to
him.  I haw endeavored to keep close to the sacred pages, which are the
grand standard of Faith and Practice, and as many as walk according this
rule, peace be on them, and on the whole Israel of God.

The first Subject I wish my brethren well instructed in is the CHURCH of
GOD.  It must be allowed that the ever blessed God, for the purposes of
glorifying his grace, hath chosen a number of persons in Christ—that he
gave them to Christ—that the Redeemer accepted them, and delighted in
them as his Bride—and though he foreknew their fall in Adam, yet he
covenanted with the Father to be their Surety, Righteousness, and
Mediator—to deliver them from the hands of their enemies by his precious
sacrifice, and in due time to call them by his holy Spirit, to the
knowledge of himself; to preserve them in himself till called, and
maintain them in the wilderness of this world till their glorification.
All these things being planned before all worlds, in due time the
Redeemer came, according to his engagement, and paid down his life for
their Justification and Pardon—in consequence of which, Justice being
satisfied, the Law honoured, Sinners redeemed, and the Holy Spirit, with
all its blessing secured, the Church of God is called, one member after
another, and will be so till the whole body is complete: hence the
Apostle says, Christ loved the Church, and gave himself for it, that he
might save it with the washing of water, by the Word—the glorious Gospel
of the blessed God is the means made use of, to bring poor sinners to the
knowledge of Jesus—truth having an entrance into the heart, influences
all the powers, enlightens the understanding, subdues and reconciles the
will, sways the affections, captivates the thoughts, and quickens the
conscience.  Thus the entrance of God’s word giveth light, and God shines
into the heart, sooner or later, to give them the light of the knowledge
of the glory of God, in the Person of Jesus.  This is attended with love
to God, as seen in Jesus—love to the Redeemer, in his Person, Work, and
Offices—love to the Holy Spirit, who has done so much for the soul, and
stands engaged to do much more.  This love is led forth to ministers who
are sent of God, especially to those whose ministry is most blessed to
us, of whatever denomination they may be.  This same principle of love is
led forth to those who bear the image of Christ, who are divinely taught,
whether they are Children, young Men, or Fathers—for, _he that loveth is
born of God_, and knoweth God—Ye are taught of God to love one
another—_he that loveth him that begat loveth him also that is begotten_.
This fire within catcheth itself wherever it is—in another—thus there is
a unity of heart; this unity of heart is attended with a willingness to
know, and do the will of God; to worship him according to his declared
will, as laid down in the New Testament—to assemble together for Prayer,
reading the Word of God, and hearing it faithfully preached by those whom
God hath sent.  It is to submit to all his Ordinances, _Baptism_, as we
are led to see it right, and the _Lord’s Supper_, with the rest of the
Lord’s people; and a walking in holy obedience to the revealed will of
God.  This appears to be the Church of God, which he purchased with his
blood; that he always protects, and will maintain as long as the world
lasts.  This is called his invisible Church (not to himself) but to the
work, they being attended with others in the same profession, though not
the same _possession_; and making this profession public in their
non-conformity to the world, in being called from among them as well as
redeemed from among them; in consequence of these things they are called
the visible Church of Christ, which has been called _Catholic_, or
_general_ Church.

This Church is variously set forth in Scripture, which is worthy our
attention, with its present and future glory.  Permit me to remark, that
many persons suppose a Church to be nothing but a large building: this is
not called a Church in Scripture—it does not mean the _Place_ but the
_People_—the professors of the Gospel, whether called effectually or not,
yet walking together in the Ordinances, and appearing to serve the same
Master, the whole body is called a Church.  There is no pure or perfect
Church this side Heaven; in this great House there are not only vessels
of gold and silver, but of wood and stone; the wise and foolish virgins
must be together till the midnight cry is made—the tares and the wheat
must grow together till the harvest—the net will contain good and bad
fish, till the final separation takes place.

This Church of Christ is not Parochial, men do not become church Members
by living in the Parish, for Jews and Turks may live in the same Parish;
nor is it Diocesan, for we never read of more than one Church under one
Bishop or Pastor—nor is it Provincial, for we read of more Churches than
one in a Province—nor is it National, for we not only read of more than
one in a Nation, but of Churches in private houses—nor is a Presbyterian,
for we never read of a Church of Presbyters or Elders, no; but only of
Presbyters and Elders ordained in Churches; this must plainly prove that
Churches existed before the Presbytery or Elders were in them—then it
appears plain that the visible Church of Christ is congregational—so the
Church of England has justly defined it—“The Church of God is a
Congregation of faithful men, in which the pure Word of God is preached
and the Sacraments duly administered;” for only the Lord’s faithful
people can have fellowship with each other—they must be regenerated by
the Spirit, called out of darkness into the kingdom of God’s dear
Son—they are called Saints because of their Sanctification, faithful men
to God and truth, such as should be saved.  They are spiritual men,
understanding spiritual things; men of holiness, whose lives and
conversation are becoming the Gospel—baptized into Christ, invisibly, by
the Spirit, and outwardly by Water, if God is pleased to shew them that
it is right, for whatsoever is not of faith is sin.  These are the
Persons who have a right to chuse their Ministers, their Officers, and to
use all the Ordinances and Privileges granted to the Church by our
glorious Lord and Master, Christ, who is the king, head, and saviour of
his Elect.  It appears the word Church signifies a sacred Assembly or
Society, called of God by the Gospel, met together to worship God
according to his revealed will.  Let this suffice, the Church, in its
just and expensive sense, includes _the whole body of the redeemed_.

This Church has appeared in every age of the world; been kept up and
supported in a very wonderful manner, which made Solomon exclaim, in
raptures of affection, wonder, and delight, _Who is this that cometh up
from the Wilderness_, _like pillars of smoke_, _perfumed with myrrh and
frankinsense_, _with all the powders of the Merchant_?—The History of the
Old Testament is but an History of the Church, which, though afflicted,
tormented, and tossed with many tempests, yet was miraculously preserved
by the Lord Jesus, who never left the world without a witness for
himself, nor never will.  ’Tis wonderful to trace her rise and
prosperity, her persecution and deliverance, till the present hour—and as
my dear friends (many of them at least) have but little time to read
History, I presume to give them a brief Account of the Church in the
Wilderness, for which I am indebted under God, to Historians.

When our Lord made his appearance in the likeness of sinful flesh, he
thoroughly purged the floor of his Old Testament Church—he effected a
wonderful revolution, set aside every carnal ordinance, and fulfilled all
laws, moral and ceremonial.  After his death and resurrection he went to
glory, that he might fill all things.  He endued his Apostles with power
from on high—raised up a company of preachers, who were means in the
hands of the Spirit, for building Sanctuaries to God.  The middle wall of
partition was now broken down—the Gentiles were fellow-citizens with the
Jews, and both made up one household.  We shortly after read of Churches
in many parts of the world.  For the first fifty years after our Lord’s
resurrection, the Gospel was most powerfully successful—God sent forth
the rod of his strength, and much good was done in the name of the holy
child, Jesus.—But Satan roared loudly; the Church was in the
Wilderness—and as it had been persecuted as related by the Apostle in the
13th of the _Hebrews_, so it was again—they under the New Testament
Dispensation, were persecuted, beaten, sawn asunder—they wandered about
in Sheep’s and Goat’s skins, and hid themselves in dens and caves of the
earth.  Surely the New Testament Saints are included in that pathetic
address, _Oh_! _thou afflicted_, _tossed with tempest_, _and not
comforted_.  Errors in doctrine soon appeared, even to the denying of the
resurrection of the body—Ordinances were soon corrupted, and
worldly-mindedness was prevalent.  Persecution wasted the Church of God
very early in the year 66; it began by imperial authority.  _Nero_ having
burnt a part of the Roman City, charged it upon the Christians, and
enacted laws to destroy them, and multitudes of them were burnt alive in
his garden, for nightly illumination: in this Persecution, it is supposed
_Paul_ and _Peter_ suffered death.  About the year 72 _Domitian_ raised a
new Persecution, but he was soon murdered by his wife.  About three years
after it began, in 105, _Trajan_, the Emperor, raised a third
Persecution, which lasted about two years.  Then a fourth Persecution by
_Adrian_, which lasted ten years—besides, vast numbers of Christians were
murdered by the Jewish rebels.  For a long time the Church was quiet from
outward Persecution, but awfully infested with errors, which became an
internal Persecution.  About the year 302, the infernal Emperor raised a
dreadful one against the Christians; many were scourged to death, had
their flesh torn off with red hot pincers, and mangled with broken pots.
They were cast to wild beasts, beheaded, crucified, burnt, drowned, torn
to pieces between trees, roasted by gentle fires, and some, having holes
made in the body, had melted lead poured into their bowels.  In Egypt
alone, an hundred and forty thousand were cut off by violent deaths, and
seven hundred thousand by banishment and hard labour.  In every part of
the Empire churches were razed to the ground, and the copies of the
Scriptures burnt.  Now they thought they had utterly abolished the
Religion of Jesus; but the vengeance of God followed the hellish tyrant,
as it had _Herod_, _Nero_, & _Domitian_ before.  _Cæsar_ obliged him to
resign his post, and retire to a private life, where he soon ended his
days by a draft of poison.

God raised up _Constantine_, the Man Child spoken of in the 12th chapter
of _Revelations_; he tolerated the Christians.  His colleague revoked it
in the East, and, instigated by the Heathen Priests, made war against
_Licinius_.  The brother-in-law of _Constantine_, enraged at his army
being routed, he murdered a multitude of the Priests, who had promised
him the victory.  He was just going to venture a second battle, when he
was smitten with blindness and terrible pain: he poisoned himself, and
amidst rage, pain, and despair, acknowledged his trouble the just reward
for his cruelty to the Christians.  _Licinius_ for a time seemed to favor
the Christians, yet soon turned a bitter Persecutor; but _Constantine_
being now a Christian, marched a great army against him, and defeated him
in three great battles, in the last of which an hundred thousand were
slain, _Licinius_ taken, and put to death.  Thus we see the Bush long
burning, and not consumed, because the _Angel of the Covenant_ was in
it—and this is he that was with the Church in the Wilderness.

The Christians now enjoyed a great calm under the reign of _Constantine_
and _Theodosius_; but Satan always took an opportunity to ruin the Church
by Heresies when he could not by Persecution.  Arianism, and many other
errors were propogated, which occasioned dreadful troubles to the Church.
_Julian_ the Apostate, endeavored once more to extirpate Christianity,
but was killed in a Persecution he raised, before he had reigned two
years.  Errors increased daily.  About the beginning of the sixth century
the Church seemed more tranquil, but the Devil was incessantly working
her ruin by the introduction of Popish errors; ignorance and profaneness
was almost universal.  The Government was almost one perpetual struggle
between the Bishops, which should be the greatest.  _Gregory_ the Great,
by immense superstition, troubled the Church; and her discomfiture was
soon universal.  This was the case of the Church in the West; while,
about this time, _Mahomet_ the Arab, took his rise in the East, and
propogated his delusion there.  Thus the Beast rose about 606, or 666;
and now, in another sense, the Church entered into her Wilderness state,
the outer Court being given to the Gentiles, to be trodden under foot for
forty-two months, or 1260 years.  Sad indeed the consequence of the rise
of the Man of Sin.  For many years worse Persecutions than under the
Pagans took place, but God did not leave the World without a Witness for
himself.  Every now and then the Lord raised up faithful men, who opposed
the Pope’s Supremacy; particularly _Luther_, in _Germany_—_Zuinglius_, in
_Switzerland_, and _Calvin_; in _France_.  The christian Religion, as
taught by _Luther_, was established in _Demark_, _Sweden_, and _Germany_.
The Doctrines taught by _Calvin_, in _Holland_, _Scotland_, _England_,
and _Ireland_; but in _Ireland_ the Persecution was dreadful indeed, and
not much less in _England_.  The Popish massacre of about three hundred
thousand Protestants in _Ireland_, and the Persecution in _England_, bid
fair to abolish the Protestant cause among us.  In _France_ the
Persecution was dreadful—_Lewis_ the 13th distressed the Protestants
greatly; numbers were barbarously murdered, and several hundred thousand
with difficulty fled to _Holland_, _England_, and elsewhere.  But blessed
be God for the glorious Reformation! for a Protestant King and Princes;
for the Will of God in our mother Tongue; for Parliaments that secure our
Rights; for the clear Preaching of the Gospel, which is our joy, though
we have to lament great decays among Churches; a dry, speculative, legal
System, in opposition to the pure truth, which is branded with the odious
term of Antinomianism; and in the world an infidel spirit of
Free-thinking, in opposition to the Word of God.  But we are looking to a
glorious period, when truth in its native simplicity, shall fly with the
rapidity of lightning, and illuminate the World; when _Anti-christ_, _in
the East and West_, _shall fall_, _to rise no more_—when _Zion’s Watchmen
shall see_, _eye to eye_—when _Jews and Gentiles form one fold_—when
_peace and holiness shall be universal_—when _kings shall be nursing
fathers to the Church_, _and the whole earth serve the Lord_!  Happy
period! the Lord hasten it in his time.

Brethren, we shall soon be done with time, and through rich grace, join
the chorus of the skies.—Hold fast the form of sound words: be concerned
to feel the power of truth in the heart; keep in the fear of God, obeying
his will, walking as he has set forth his mind; looking unto Jesus;
praying to be kept in all danger, temptation, persecution, and trial, and
so we shall give him glory in the Church below, and in the Church
above.—_Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling_, _and to
present you faultless before the presence of his glory—to the only wise
God our Saviour_, _be glory_, _dominion_, _and power_.  _Amen_.

                                * * * * *

_The following are the Articles of Faith I read at my Ordination_; _and
are necessary for every Christian to know_, _feel_, _and enjoy—they are
the Sentiments I preach_, _and you_, _as a Church_, _believe_.  _May we
rejoice in the truth_, _and yield obedience thereto_.—

_We think if requisite that every Member of the Church should give his or
her assent to the annexed_




CONFESSION of FAITH.


I.  I BELIEVE, that the Scriptures of the Old and New Testament are the
word of God, and the only rule of faith and practice.

II.  I believe, that there is but One only, living, and true God; that
there are three Persons in the Godhead, who are equal in nature, power,
and glory; and, that the Son and Holy Ghost, are as truly and properly
God, as the Father.  These Three divine Persons are distinguished from
each other by peculiar relative properties.  These Three divine distinct
Persons, I profess to reverence, serve, and worship, as the One true God.

III.  I believe that before the World began, God did elect a certain
number of Mankind unto everlasting life, whom he did predestinate to the
adoption of Children, by Jesus Christ, of his own free grace, and
according to the good pleasure of his will; that he appointed holiness as
the means: and that no one has a right to consider himself as a chosen
vessel, till he is effectually called by the grace of God.

IV.  I believe, that God made all things in Creation, out of nothing, to
display his goodness, wisdom, power, and glory; and, that by the same
power, he upholds and governs, rules and directs all things in Heaven and
Earth; and, that he displays his sovereignty according to the counsel of
his own will, or his eternal plan, formed before all Worlds.

V.  I believe, that there is one Mediator between God and Man; the Man,
Christ Jesus; that he stood in his mediatorial capacity as our
representative and head, in the covenant of eternal redemption and grace;
engaged to be all that to his people, they could possibly need in time,
and their bliss through eternity.

VI.  I believe that God made Man upright; but mutable and liable to fall:
that through the influence of Satan, he broke the covenant of works, and
fell from the image of God; that all Mankind sinned in him and fell, with
him, as their head and representative; and both him and his posterity
became liable to the curse and penalty of a violated law.

VII.  I believe, that all Mankind are conceived and born in sin, Children
of disobedience, enemies to God, violators of his commands, averse to
good, prone to evil, Children of wrath, obnoxious to the justice of God,
and the condemnation of his law: and I believe, that no Creature can help
or deliver himself, out of that wretched state into which he has fallen.
I solemnly believe, that this is the state of all Men by nature.

VIII.  I believe, that according to the eternal appointment of God the
father, and the Covenant engagements of the dear Redeemer, that in the
fulness of time, God sent his Son into the world to redeem fallen Men;
that part of the human race, that was given him in eternity; that their
redemption was obtained by the shedding of his blood; that this
redemption is special and particular, designed only for the elect of God,
the Sheep of Christ, who only share the special and peculiar blessings of
it.  And, in order to accomplish our redemption, I believe, it was
necessary that the Redeemer should take upon him our nature, a human body
and soul, created and formed by God the Spirit, conceived in the womb of
the Virgin Mary, born of a Woman, made under the law, that he might
redeem his people from it; work out a righteousness adequate to its
demands, make an atonement by suffering the death of the Cross, satisfy
divine Justice, glorify all the attributes of Deity, and open a way for
the communication of all those blessings, which are needful for the
Saints of God, both for time and eternity.

IX.  I believe, that the matter of the Sinners’ justification before a
holy God, is the righteousness of Christ imputed to them; which is, his
perfect, spotless obedience to the law, in their room and stead, without
the consideration of any works done by them; and, that the full and free
pardon of all their sins, past, present, and to come, is only through the
blood of Christ, according to the riches of his grace; and, that none can
be justified in any other way.  This righteousness being seen by the eye
of faith, and embraced by the hand of faith, we are manifestly justified
and freed from the law; that, being dead wherein we were held, we live to
God, and by love serve the Lord, having our fruit unto holiness, and the
end eternal life.

X.  I believe, that all the objects of eternal love, the subjects of his
choice, and the purchase of the Redeemer’s blood, are effectually called
in one way or other, by the efficacious and irresistible grace of God the
divine Spirit; and not by an act of Man’s free will and power.  I believe
they are washed, justified, and sanctified, in the name and by God the
Spirit, in some part of their lives.

XI.  I believe, that all saints are kept by the mighty power of God,
through faith, to eternal Salvation; and that as sure as they are called,
justified, and sanctified, they will infallibly persevere; because of the
perpetuity of God’s love, the stability of his covenant, and his
faithfulness to his absolute promises.

XII.  I believe, that the Church of Christ consists of true believers in
his name; that these are his mystical body, of which, he is the only
head, and there is no other: and that all the Children of God derive
spiritual life from him, by virtue of union to him; that he is our life;
and in consequence of that, we are now quickened by his life-giving power
in conversion; our bodies shall be quickened in the last day, and all
Believers shall enjoy eternal life, in glory for ever.

XIII.  I believe, that in the new testament Church of Christ, there are
two Sacraments: Baptism, and the Supper of the Lord.  I believe, Baptism
to be an outward and visible sign; first, of the sufferings, death,
burial, and resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ; secondly, of an inward
and spiritual operation of the Holy Ghost, upon the hearts of believers;
and is a grand emblem of a death unto sin, and a new birth unto
righteousness; for being by nature the children of wrath, we are by
regeneration, manifested to be children of grace.  I believe, that only
those who profess the name of Jesus, have any right thereto.  That it
should be administered to Adults alone, in the name of the adorable
Trinity; and, that it is to be performed by immersion—but wish to
exercise the most unbounded charity to all who differ from us in this
particular.  I believe, that the Lord’s Supper was instituted the night
on which he was betrayed, to represent his sufferings and death; and is
to be attended to by all Believers, until his second coming.

XIV.  I believe, that it is the duty of every Christian to obey the laws
of their Country; not to speak evil of Dignities; but, to pray for the
King, his Family, and the Government under which we live; to study to be
quiet, peaceable, and submissive, according to the laws of Jesus Christ,
which is our rule of conduct: and, who has said, “Render unto Cæsar, the
things which are his;” and by his holy Apostles has commanded “That every
Soul should be subject to the higher powers; that we should honor all
Men, love the Brotherhood, fear God, honor the King.”

XV.  I believe, that it is the duty of all Believers, to take the
commands of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, as their rule of conduct;
that, while they are relying on his Righteousness, for justification; on
his Blood, for pardon; and, on the Spirit, for internal sanctification;
they, from a principal of love shed abroad in their hearts, are made
willing to obey his laws, as King in Mount Zion: and, that his
commandments are the believer’s rule of outward conduct; that it is their
duty to stand fast in one Spirit, with one mind, striving together for
the faith of the gospel: that it is their duty to walk in wisdom, to them
that are without; to exercise a conscience void of offence towards God
and Man, by living soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world:
that it is their duty to walk with each other is all humility and
brotherly love; to watch over each other’s conversation; to stir up one
another to love and to good works; not forsaking the assembling of
ourselves together, as we have opportunity; to worship God, according to
his revealed will; and, when the case requires, to warn, rebuke, and
admonish one another, according to the rules of the gospel: and that it
is our duty to sympathize with each other, to bear with one another’s
weaknesses, failings, and infirmities; and, particularly to pray for one
another.  All these duties we are bound to perform, and every other law
of Christ’s spiritual house, through the gracious influence of a Spirit
of love, of power, and of a sound mind; ever remembering, that we are to
obey the laws of our Sovereign, as King, on his holy hill of Zion.

XVI.  I believe, that all the Ordinances of divine appointment ought to
be attended unto, by all that profess their faith in, and love to our
Lord Jesus Christ, as the head of his Church; hearing the Word, public
Prayer, Baptism, and the Lord’s Supper: singing of Psalms, Hymns, and
Spiritual Songs, vocally; this is an ordinance of the gospel, to be
performed by Believers; but, as to time, place, and manner, every one
ought to be left to their liberty in using it.

XVII.  I believe, that there will be a Resurrection, both of the just and
unjust; and that Christ will come a second time to judge both quick and
dead; when he will take vengeance on the wicked, and introduce his own
People into his kingdom and glory, where they shall be for ever with him;
and, then shall the mediatorial kingdom be delivered up to the Father, by
the Redeemer; the mystery of God be finished: Heaven will be the Saints
final home; and, God, Father, Son, and Spirit, be all in all, for ever
and ever.

XVIII.  I believe, that the felicity of the Saints will be eternal; and I
as firmly believe, such will be the eternity of misery; unless, the
never-dying worm dies, and this unquenchable fire goes out; which will
not, cannot be; for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it.

                                * * * * *

_These Sentiments we are bound to acknowledge_, _as a Church_.—We wish in
all things to adorn these Doctrines; and having been called out of the
world, to the knowledge of the truth, _experimentally_—in that hope, and
through divine grace, we have given up ourselves to God—to walk in his
ways, as laid down in that part of his holy word which respects the _New
Testament Church_.  We therefore enter into covenant with each other, and
pray for grace to keep the following scriptural RULES.




THE MEMBERS’ COVENANT.


    JER. l. 5.  Come, let us join ourselves to the Lord, in a perpetual
    Covenant that shall not be forgotten.

    ACTS ii, 2.  And they continued stedfastly in the Apostles Doctrine,
    and in fellowship.

    LUKE xxiv, 15.  And it came to pass that while they communed
    together, and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them.

                                * * * * *

WE AGREE,

1.—WITH regard to the _Minister_—that as long as God is pleased to make
him useful to our souls, and we consider him as sent of God—we will
diligently attend upon his Ministry—cheerfully submit to and readily obey
all the Ordinances he administers—agreeable to the written word—Heb.
xiii, 7.  _Remember them that have the rule over you_, _who have spoken
to you the Word of God_.  We further agree to make prayer and
supplication for him, to watch his conversation, and follow him as far as
he follows Christ.  That we will esteem him, reverence, and obey him in
the Lord—agreeable to 1 Thess. v, 13.  _And we beseech you_, _Brethren to
know them which labour among you_, _and are over you in the Lord_, _and
admonish you—and to esteem them very highly in love_, _for their Works
sake_.  _Brethren_, _pray for us_.  _Prayer was made without ceasing to
God for him_—_Whose faith follow_, _considering the __end of their
conversion_.—And we agree, according to our circumstances, by the
administration of earthly things, to support and maintain him, agreeable
to 1 Cor. xi.  _If we have sown unto you in spiritual things_, _is it a
great thing if we should reap your carnal things_?  _Even so hath the
Lord appointed_.—We agree likewise to abide by him in all trials and
persecutions—that we will encourage him, strengthen his hands, and speak
kindly of him—avoiding all bitterness of spirit, tattling and gossiping
about him, as contrary to the Gospel.

2.—We agree to receive and esteem all _Officers_ in the Church, that have
been appointed by the Church, whose faith and practice is conformable to
the written word.  That we will speak kindly of them, receive reproof
from them when necessary, and make known all cases of distress, spiritual
or temporal, in the Church, to them—while we have reason to believe they
answer the spiritual character of a Deacon, as laid down in 1 Tim. 3rd
Chapter.

3.—We agree, through grace, to be found in the use of all appointed
means, public and private, and on special occasions, when notified by the
Minister, as in Acts xiv, 2.  _When they were come_, _and had gathered
the Church together_.—_Forsake not the assembling yourselves together_,
_as the manner of some is_.—_Where two or three are gathered together_,
_there am I in the midst_.  _Lo_, _I am with you always_.

4.—As Members of the same Church, we will endeavour to cultivate an
affectionate and sincere love, without dissimulation, towards one
another—like that which Christ bears to his Church; and studiously avoid
all occasion of division among the members—such as hard speeches, cruel
and unjust remarks, disdainful looks, reproaches, slanders, and all
causeless divisions in judgment concerning spiritual things.  But that we
will watch and pray against these things, as injurious to the cause of
Christ; but endeavor to maintain a oneness of mind and consent of
judgment, to every grand truth, and a uniformity of practice.—_Ye
yourselves are taught of God to love one another_.—_Be kindly affectioned
one towards another_.  _By this shall all men know that ye are my
disciples_, _if ye love one another_.

5.—We mutually agree to pray for the prosperity of the kingdom of Christ,
particularly for that part to which we belong—that body of christians
which we commune with.  This we will do through grace, constantly,
cheerfully, and affectionately, publicly, and more frequently in
private—especially for the most tried, afflicted, and poor members.
_Pray ye for the peace of Jerusalem—they shall prosper that love her_.
_Continuing constant in prayer_.

6.—That, as a Church, we will, as much as possible, be separate from the
World, its customs, maxims, pursuits, & worship.  Pray against a worldly
spirit, either of levity or sullenness, covetous of oppressive, in
dealing with others.—_Come out from among them_, _and be ye separate_,
_saith the Lord_.

7.—We agree to study each others spiritual benefit, and take every
opportunity, for the communion of Saints, to impart what light or
enjoyments, trials, and mercies, sorrows and deliverances.  To avoid all
frothy, light, or vain conversation, as not becoming a Church of Christ.
_Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another_.  _Let your
speech be always with grace_.  _Wherefore comfort one another_, _and
edify one another_, _as also ye do_.

8.—We will endeavour to bear with each others infirmities, weakness, and
failings, in meekness, patience, and pity—render them what assistance we
can, by prayer, advice, and kindness; not approving their errors, but
recommending them to the Lord, and forgiving every offence done against
us, when we believe such an offender is sorry, and will acknowledge his
sin.  _Be ye kind to one to another—tender hearted_.  _If thy brother
repent forgive him_.  _We that are strong ought to bear the infirmities
of the weak_.  _Charity suffereth long_, _and is kind_.  _If any man have
a quarrel against any_, _even as Christ forgave you_, _so also do ye_.

9.—We agree to sympathize with each other in the calamities and trials
that may befall us—either affliction of body, unjust reproach, real
falls, family afflictions, or temptation and soul troubles.  _Remember
them that are in bonds_, _as bound with them_; _and those who suffer
adversity_.  _If one member suffers all the members suffer with it_.
_Bear ye one anothers burdens_.  _Ye ought to support the weak_.

10.—We agree to contribute to the real necessities of those who are
poor—in things temporal, according to every one’s ability.  _Let us do
good to all men_, _especially the household of faith_.  _And if thy
brother be waxen poor and fallen into decay with thee_, _thou shall
relieve him_.  _Distributing to the necessity of the saints_, _given to
hospitality—for God loveth a cheerful giver_.

11.—We mutually agree to watch over each other for good—to comfort the
feeble-minded, to warn the unruly, and to reprove in faithfulness,
wisdom, moderation, and kindness, what we see amiss in each other—to
endeavor to restore a fallen Brother—to seek consolation for him by
prayer and the word; but if persisting in an evil cause, acquaint the
Officers of the Church, that they may take up the cause.—_Brethren_, _if
any of you do err from the faith_, _and one convert_ (_or restore_)
_him_, _let him know_, _that he which converteth a sinner from the error
of his way_, _shall save a soul from death_.—_Yet count him not an
enemy_, _but admonish him as a Brother_.  _He that being often reproved_,
_hardeneth his neck_, _shall be destroyed without a remedy_.  _Let us
consider one another_.

12.—We hope, through grace, to walk in all holiness of life, to the glory
of the Gospel, the edification of the Church, and conviction to them that
are without—looking unto Jesus, depending on his unmerited favour,
rejoicing in his Person and Work, and lodging for the happy time, when we
shall join the Church triumphant in heaven.—_Let your light so shine_.
_Having these promises_, _let us cleanse ourselves_.—_See that ye walk
circumspectly_.

And now, Brethren, I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace,
which is able to build you up, and to give you an inheritance among them
that are sanctified, by faith in Christ Jesus.  _Amen_.

                                * * * * *

                                  FINIS.




***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE NATURE OF A GOSPEL CHURCH***


******* This file should be named 58014-0.txt or 58014-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/5/8/0/1/58014


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

