The Project Gutenberg eBook, A Religious Tract, recommending a Christian's
Duty, by Rev. Joseph Phillimore


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: A Religious Tract, recommending a Christian's Duty


Author: Rev. Joseph Phillimore



Release Date: May 3, 2020  [eBook #62017]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A RELIGIOUS TRACT, RECOMMENDING A
CHRISTIAN'S DUTY***


Transcribed from the 1814 Flanders and Co.  Many thanks to Kensington and
Chelsea Local Studies for finding this in their archives, and allowing it
to be transcribed.

                       [Picture: Cover of pamphlet]





                                    A
                             Religious Tract,


                               RECOMMENDING

                            A CHRISTIAN’S DUTY

                            MOST RESPECTFULLY,

                           To the Parishioners

                                    OF

                      ORTON ON THE HILL & TWYCROSS,

                       IN THE COUNTY OF LEICESTER.

                                * * * * *

                      BY THE REV. JOSEPH PHILLIMORE,
                       VICAR OF ORTON ON THE HILL.

                                * * * * *

                                * * * * *

                              _ATHERSTONE_:
                       PRINTED BY FLANDERS AND CO.

                                  1814.




Religious Tract, &c.


NOTHING can be of more moment to you, than living virtuously on earth, as
the salvation of your souls in future is one of the objects nearest my
heart.

May you practise this friendly admonition contained herein, being assured
I wish no harm or evil to any part of the human race, but for the love of
my Redeemer, and the certain hopes of mankind zealous in faith and good
works being rewarded with perpetual bliss, which the wicked and the
negligent in pure religion will not inherit, unless they be reclaimed,
and walk in newness of life, like the good and faithful which will
produce repentance, and forgiveness from past sins, is the only object of
my addressing this small tract of religion for your future private and
public conduct.

It is almost ten years since my late most invaluable friend, John
Randolph, late bishop of London, Bangor, and Oxford, in the year 1804,
conferred on me an everlasting monument of friendship (which had existed
unshaken more than thirty years), in presenting me to the living of Orton
on the Hill; and with tributes of gratitude I daily looked upon it my
bounden duty to have prayed for him during his life, and for the benefit
of his surviving widow and family, for their present and future
happiness; knowing you cannot be displeased at my imitating such a great
example of Christianity, to invite you to pursue the blessed steps of a
merciful Redeemer, who came into the world to save miserable lost
sinners.

It was my first inquiry to know your characters and circumstances
individually, and having minutely watched and observed your actions,
though not extreme to mark what has been done amiss, I will allow there
has been great improvement in general in religious exercises since my
first appearance among you.  Some exceptions there are, and I am fearful
ever will be; there being scarce any flock without some wandering sheep;
yet happy should I be, if both my parishes were more exemplary in
temperance, integrity, religion, and chastity, than any others in the
diocese of Lincoln; but remember, those who have been exceptions, I have
gently warned them of their errors and manner of life, privately at home,
as well as in the church, to turn from their evil ways, and live; for why
should the obstinate sinner practise bad habits, which will ruin both
body and soul, instead of being forgiven by a merciful God, on hearty
sorrow and repentance?

In the first place, I shall recommend private prayers, morning and
evening, to you in your respective dwellings, that God may bless your
industrious, honest endeavours, in this life with prosperity, and
patiently to bear adversity.

In the morning, the first thing you think on, think on your God that made
you, and his Son Jesus Christ, who redeemed the whole world from sin, and
upon your bended knees offer up these two following prayers, and when
finished, rise up and say your belief; and ye that are parents, teach
them your children before you go to your daily labour.



_Let_ (_me_ or _us_) _pray_.


OUR Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name: Thy kingdom come:
Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven: Give us this day our daily
bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive them that trespass
against us; and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil;
for thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory, for ever and ever.
Amen.

                                * * * * *

O Lord, our heavenly Father, almighty and everlasting God, who hast
safely brought (_us_ or _me_) to the beginning of this day; defend (_us_
or _me_) in the same with thy mighty power; and grant that this day (_I_
or _we_) fall into no sin; neither run into any kind of danger; but that
all (_my_ or _our_) doings may be ordered by thy governance, to do always
that is righteous in thy sight, through Jesus Christ our Lord.  Amen.



_Stand up to repeat your Belief_.


I believe in God the Father almighty, maker of heaven and earth; and in
Jesus Christ his only Son our Lord, who was conceived by the Holy Ghost,
born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified,
dead, and buried; he descended into hell; the third day he rose again
from the dead, he ascended into heaven, and sitteth on the right hand of
God the Father almighty: from thence he shall come to judge the quick and
the dead.

I believe in the Holy Ghost; the holy Catholic church; the communion of
saints; the forgiveness of sins; the resurrection of the body, and the
life everlasting.  Amen.



_Evening Prayers before going to bed_.


OUR Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name: Thy kingdom come:
Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven: Give us this day our daily
bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive them that trespass
against us: and lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from evil;
for thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory, for ever and ever.
Amen.

                                * * * * *

ALMIGHTY God, unto whom all hearts be open, all desires known, and from
whom no secrets are hid; cleanse the thoughts of our hearts by the
inspiration of thy Holy Spirit, that we may perfectly love thee, and
worthily magnify thy holy name, through Christ our Lord.  Amen.

                                * * * * *

LIGHTEN our darkness, we beseech thee, O Lord; and by thy great mercy
defend us from all perils and dangers of this night, for the love of thy
only Son, our Saviour, Jesus Christ.  Amen.

                                * * * * *

After this private domestic duty to Almighty God, morning and evening, I
should hope with such preparations, no one will be deficient in public
duty every revolving Sabbath in God’s holy church, to enable him to
become as perfect a Christian as possible on earth; for private prayer is
only one part of a Christian’s duty; to which must be added, public
devotion, praise, gratitude, and thanksgiving, for daily benefits
received from Almighty God, on the sacred Sabbath.  Private prayer
without public devotion is imperfect, like faith without works of
charity, benevolence, and Christian love will not complete the true
disciple of our Lord, like unto St. John; but an union of faith and good
works daily practised will plead for mercy, and a resurrection from the
dead to endless happiness.

Our excellent church requires three necessary offices to be observed,
besides public worship, as preparatory to our Saviour’s interference for
miserable sinners:—Baptism, Confirmation, receiving the holy Sacrament
frequently, particularly on the sacred days which have a preface
appointed to be read in the communion service, which are on the nativity
of Christ, or Christmas-day, Easter-day, Whit-Sunday, Ascension-day,
Trinity-Sunday.

Our blessed Saviour was born in a manger, on Christmas-day, to teach
mankind humility; suffered death on the cross, on Good Friday, to teach
patience and resignation in affliction, troubles, and death; rose again
the third day from the dead on Easter Sunday, convincing all the world he
had conquered sin and wickedness.

On Ascension-day, after his most glorious resurrection from the dead, he
manifestly appeared to his Apostles; and in their sight, he ascended up
into Heaven to prepare a place for faithful Christians.

On Whitsunday, he sent down his Holy Spirit, like a dove, upon the
Apostles, teaching the way, the truth, and the light of the Gospel.

Trinity Sunday is observed as a total union of Father, Son, and Holy
Ghost, in heaven.

It is my eager wish, for the great benefit of both parishes, as an
encouragement to religion, and the regular practice of it, that a Bible,
the Common Prayer Book, the Whole Duty of Man, was in every house.  The
opulent part of the parishes, I have every reason to believe, have some
of these books, Bible, Common Prayer, (perhaps not the book called the
Whole Duty of Man), but I earnestly entreat them to buy it.  Seven or
eight shillings will.  It contains the whole duly of a Christian: it is
divided and subdivided into several Sundays, and an excellent substitute
for sermons; for if religious discourses are not written by orthodox
divines educated at either of our Universities of Oxford and Cambridge,
and well chosen for unlearned people to read, they sometimes urge the
ignorant, for want of such superior education, to dive into mysteries
which they cannot unfold, and increase the number of dissenters, many of
whom presume to be teachers, by law authority, though without divine
authority, and add greatly to the number of fanatics, by which means the
blind lead the blind, though perhaps without any original intention of
mischief.

Our blessed Redeemer was no respecter of persons; he came to save the
poor as well as the rich, both to be inheritors of the kingdom of heaven;
and it is becoming the poor should practise religion, and join in the
service on the sacred Sabbath; for which reason, it was my wish a Sunday
School might be established in both parishes, which has been done, one of
some years, from which great benefit has ensued; the other is in its
infancy, but I hope it will flourish, and be as effectual to stop vice as
the other; for the beginning of all evil in general proceeds from neglect
of early duty on the sacred Sabbath; but the future advantages of this
institution must be considered, as well as the present; for after the
children have learnt to read, and having no books, their parents being
unable to purchase any, what will be the consequence?  An oblivion of all
their once acquired Christian duty?  If some remedy is not prescribed,
which I humbly recommend to all my wealthy parishioners to enter into,
that the word of God may never be forgotten from infancy to old age, but
cherished and nourished till the hour of death, as the most inestimable
treasure, meriting the greatest future reward, and will never be
forgotten by the almighty Disposer of all human events, when the humane
and charitable will appear before him.

I recommend a Bible in every poor man’s house, but this may be too
expensive; but the one I shall offer will not; as I am a Member of the
Society in London for propagating Christian Knowledge, I shall have an
opportunity of purchasing the books at a reasonable rate; so as every
poor man’s house may have a Testament, Common Prayer, as I have the great
satisfaction to assure my parishioners (of Orton), if the parents cannot
read, the children can; by which means, whoever comes to church, may
bring a prayer book, and join in the service, and the testament read at
home.

I beseech you to listen to my entreaties for a subscription for the
benefit of religion, and shew your permanent gratitude to the Almighty
for his bountiful harvest; and likewise for the many great victories
gained by our armies and our allies, in foreign countries, compelling the
insulting tyrant disgracefully to retreat with irreparable loss to his
own country.  But think, my parishioners, how this our native country,
and united dominions, should excel all others in Europe in religion and
gratitude, and give every token of present and future praise to the God
of all mercies, who has so favourably defended us with his shield and
buckler, never to have permitted the enemy’s sword to be drawn in our
land during the contest of 20 years.

Think on the thousands and thousands of innocent men, women, and
children, who have fallen sacrifices, and our country has enjoyed inward
tranquillity, peace, domestic and public.

There are thirty poor houses, for which I solicit from the farmers, as a
token of gratitude, subscriptions which will enable me to fulfil my most
eager desire for every family in the parish among the poor, to have a
Testament and Common Prayer, by which means they will learn their duty to
God and their neighbour.

The day is hastening (O my parishioners) when I shall meet you face to
face, and our mutual examination will pass before a merciful and
impartial Saviour and judge, to give an account of all our actions; when
hypocrisy, intemperance, breaking the Sabbath and God’s holy
commandments, will receive their punishment, and virtue, religion, and
charity, their rewards; for I have done my duty as a faithful shepherd,
as far as my frail abilities have enabled me, to reclaim the wicked, and
exhort the good, having clothed the naked, fed the hungry, visited the
sick, and preached the blessed gospel of salvation to every one of you
who have observed the sacred sabbath.  When you have shut your pew doors,
recollect, as many as possible, these verses of the Psalm xix. v. 14, 15.
“Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be always
acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer.”

When the sermon is finished, before you go out of church, Psalm cxxxix.
v. 23, 24. “Try me, O God, and search the ground of my heart, prove me,
and examine my thoughts.  Look well if there be any wickedness in me, and
lead me in the way everlasting.”

I remain,

                           Worthy parishioners,

                                       Your constant well-wisher in things
                                                     temporal and eternal,

                                                        JOSEPH PHILLIMORE.
                                                         _Vicar of Orton_.




***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A RELIGIOUS TRACT, RECOMMENDING A
CHRISTIAN'S DUTY***


******* This file should be named 62017-0.txt or 62017-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/6/2/0/1/62017


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

