The Project Gutenberg eBook, A Sermon preached at Kensington Church, on
June the 29th, 1794, by Rev. Joseph Phillimore


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: A Sermon preached at Kensington Church, on June the 29th, 1794
       after the Victory gained at Sea, June the 1st


Author: Rev. Joseph Phillimore



Release Date: May 3, 2020  [eBook #62014]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A SERMON PREACHED AT KENSINGTON
CHURCH, ON JUNE THE 29TH, 1794***


Transcribed from the 1794 edition by David Price, email ccx074@pglaf.org
Many thanks to Kensington and Chelsea local studies for finding this in
their archive and permitting it to be transcribed.

                      [Picture: Public domain cover]





                                    A
                                  SERMON


                               PREACHED AT

                            KENSINGTON CHURCH,

                                    ON

                           JUNE the 29th, 1794;

                                AFTER THE

                   VICTORY gained at SEA, June the 1st.

                                * * * * *

                                  BY THE
                         Rev. JOSEPH PHILLIMORE,

            Late Gentleman Commoner of _Christ Church_, OXON.




A SERMON.


                               MATH. viii. 25.

    _And his Disciples came unto him_; _and awoke him_, _saying_, _Lord_,
    _save us_, _we perish_.

IN a chapter previous to that from whence my text is taken, our blessed
Saviour, had been preaching his most excellent sermon on the mount to his
disciples, wherein he had diffused comfort and consolation, adding
thereunto satisfaction to the whole human race, and after having pointed
out his doctrine in a very specific manner, the many and various duties,
of a good christian; exhorting all to follow minutely the good advice
contained in his discourse, charging them not only to be hearers of the
gospel, but doers also, intimating therein, that it availeth little, to
listen and hearken, to whatever religion, and virtue, instruct, direct,
and authorize mankind to do, provided the greater and more important
part, is omitted, which our blessed Redeemer, during the whole time while
he was on earth, was unweary in well doing, and particularly exhorting
all those who wished to follow him, to imitate continually, and that was
the practical part of religion; let us not be faint hearted, nor profess
with our lips, and utter with our tongue, what our heart knows we are not
able to perform; let us shew forth God’s praises and thanksgivings, that
by being attentive hearers, and having received the fruits of good works
go forth with joy and publish the glad tidings of Salvation, for unto us
is born a son the Saviour of the world.  For every one of you shall be
known by your fruits, for every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but
an evil tree bringeth forth evil and corrupted fruit, and is hewn down
and cast into the fire, and as the tree is more valuable that bringeth
forth good fruit to its earthly possessor, so much greater value, shall
those men be of to their heavenly father, who from their first entrance
into life have delighted in good works and actions, how much more shall
they be rewarded in a future state of bliss, than those, whose evil deeds
have multiplied their sorrows and sins here, and worn out their
constitution.

This chapter hath been reckoned by some worthy and good christians, as
the miraculous scripture, having contained in it, the most wonderful acts
of clemency and mercy, the greatest display of divine love and tenderness
that could possibly be possessed, and as such I have chosen my text, as
our blessed Lord and Master, found it necessary to exhibit wonders and
perform miracles as you may all observe in this place, rather than so
many souls should be lost, let me compare the present situation of sinful
men, in these our more improved and enlightened days, that although, the
greatest: rewards and punishments, are held out to mankind, the former as
an incitement and encouragement and exhortation to every good work, and
the latter as a terror to every evil and wicked one; yet the wicked must
cry out and say, Lord, save us, we perish, remembering the blessed Jesus,
hath born all our infirmities, yet we have a resting place, a rock of
defence, in time of trouble to flee unto, we are not as our blessed
Saviour described he was, when he said unto his disciples, the foxes have
holes, and the birds of the air have nests, but the son of man hath not
where to lay his head.  I will add a few observations on our blessed
Saviour’s manner of teaching, before I shew the great necessity of all
sinners, becoming truly penitent, lest they perish, and that is first,
his manner was grave and serious, pious and ardent, plain and profitable;
brevity without obscureness, gravity without affectation, eloquence
without meretricious ornament, such was the great power and influence of
Christ’s doctrine, that it made all that heard him admirers and
believers, and caused great astonishment in their minds and reformation
in their manners and had every reason to confirm these words of
scripture, we verily believe him to be the son of God, for never knew we
any spake, and act, as he hath done; and it came to pass, when Jesus had
ended these sayings, the people were astonished at his doctrine, for he
taught them as one having authority; his authority was the best, his
religion was the purest, it breathed forth charity and love, his love,
was visibly displayed to the whole human race, that their souls might be
saved, his charity was exhibited in covering a multitude of sins, and
healing all the infirmities human nature endures; even the leper was
cleansed of his spots, the paralytic received strength, who had been
grievously tormented, and Peter’s mother in law had been cured of a fever
on a sudden, which miracles are particularly described in a preceding
chapter.

The more we search the scriptures the better able we shall be to judge of
the frailty and weakness of human nature, and to make such observations,
as will convince all mankind, at least the most religious and virtuous
part, that during our short and transitory passage in these earthly
regions, where there is a great mixture of good and evil, that very often
unexpected storms, and tempests arise and we are surrounded with
turbulent and violent appearances of approaching misfortunes, and
insurmountable troubles, and may compare the present situation to the
mariner, who for a series of years must go through the threatening and
dangerous scenes of chance, either of good, or bad fortune, and be
subjected to be tossed in the troubled ocean, now and then beholding it
serene and calm, and very frequently becomes a witness of many distressed
objects, shipwrecked, forlorn and apparently cast away, neglected and
deserted, yet as he knows very well, long ere he sets out on his
prosperous and advantageous voyage, he must place all his dependance on
divine providence that he may escape and avoid all the dangers, the
restless and disturbed deep may expose him unto during his passage, yet
at the last, through the mercy of God, he may arrive at the wished for
haven, where plenty and security will protect him for his trouble, and
the service he has been of to his country by returning with those
necessary supplies, for his fellow creatures, he left behind, and without
which the mercantile part of this creation would neither be rich or
opulent in the latter part of their lives; such, is the great desire of
gain, and power, and authority, that we behold many risque and venture
their lives, some after a few years absence ruin their constitutions,
returning with opulence, spend it in extravagance, indulging themselves
in idleness and passing their days in inactivity and lasciviousness.
Others who have been led to search unknown countries, and visit foreign
regions for the sake of information and improvement, and have quitted
their native place for the sake of the propagation of the gospel, and
encouraging virtue and religion, God grant, they may receive the honour
due unto them, and when they return, receive a sufficient recompence for
their rewards; all such examples as these, those who have not had
inclination, nor have been forced to leave their domestic happiness, and
wonted societies of their youth and innocence, owe many great and
valuable comforts unto, such is the mixture, such is the composition of
frail man, unbounded are his desires, various are his expectations, some
are promoted to honour, some born to dishonour; yet in every birth, in
every climate, and situation of life, more or less man is exposed to
different trials, some accidental, some troubles, are to be expected long
ere they happen, but then we have this consolation, as we see the fatal
and evil day approaching, we have every opportunity, to prepare for the
attack, and place our reliance and dependance alone on the Almighty, and
as the storm was sudden, and unexpected, and terrified the disciples of
the blessed Jesus, that even, the sea began to roar, and the whole ocean
looked black, and the wind to sound terribly, and the foaming billows,
and boisterous waves rolled in upon them, so that they verily thought
they should perish, instantly as their faith urged them to call on their
all-powerful master, he listened unto their cry of justice, and stilled
and rebuked the troubled waves, and all was calm and quiet.

Let me now rouse all mankind, and particularly sinners to have a lively
faith in God, that they may have a due sense of his great mercies, that
as they have been carried along for a series of years, and length of
days, in the deceitful and fallacious path of pleasure and dissipation,
they are still supported and borne up by a very feeble and slippery, and
tender prop, and if not seriously and instantly consider their dreadful
situation, may die in their sins, and cry out too late in the greatest
misery and the bitter pangs and agonies of severe and conquering death,
Lord, save us, we perish.  Sinners delight in laying snares for the
innocent and virtuous, and encourage and invite many a thoughtless and
giddy youth, by the wages of sin, that all the ways of Satan are
pleasing, amiable, and enviable, and prosperous, but they are deceitful
on the weights; they are lighter than vanity itself, they are full of
ungodliness and wrong, and will haunt the wicked person even in his
latter days, to overthrow him.  Prosperity in worldly affairs, often
makes a man think that he shall never know adversity, and while he is
supported by art and flattery, believes it; but this is not a life
consisting entirely in prosperity.  Man is a composition of good and
evil, and in order to escape adversity and enjoy prosperity, he must
suffer the one with patience and resignation in the early part of his
life, and as he advance forward, he shall bear it patiently, and
supported by hope, on his future expectation, shall be rewarded with
prosperity, clothed and adorned with that simple and never fading dress
and attire of virtue and chastity, subduing and conquering the gaudy and
presumptuous attacks of vice, arrogance and pride.

This is the state of mortal man here below, yet within him dwelleth an
immortal soul, that points out an hereafter unto him and if not very
attentively modelled and particular care paid to him, when reason first
enters his tender mind, in all probability his irregular and unruly
passions being numerous will get the better of him, and the inconsiderate
actions of his younger days will bring his grey hairs with grief and
sorrow to the grave, the end of that journey from whence no traveller
ever returns.  Many there are at this present time perhaps among us, who
are living in the deceitful scenes of sin and wickedness, and running
where they would be very sorry to be told, a very swift, and sure race of
destruction and ruin, despising what the aged aged parent or faithful and
experienced friend and companion, hath often admonished, never as yet
having felt the timely correction of God, by sickness or adversity, but
day after day rolling on, and continually seeking the societies of the
profligate, the abandoned, and the wicked.  Man it is allowed, and its
true, is formed for societies, for intercourse, but for such as either
improve, or inform, the mind and understanding; he was made and brought
into the world of such noble and glorious materials, having the image of
his maker in an inferior degree, to pass his whole time in feasting and
idle talking, spending the beginning of the day in ludicrous and
unprofitable company and the latter in crimes of excessive intemperance,
excessive indelicacies and irregularities: such my younger part of this
congregation, is too much the fashion and the custom, and the practice of
the present time, yet it is to be hoped the young will stop their career
and race, and have a due sense of God’s love and affection, and call upon
him in the time of trouble and need, and at a time when he may be heard,
and that is right instantly, for he has declared he is ever ready to
listen and even willing to pardon and receive the returning and penitent
sinner.  May you all escape divine wrath and vengeance and punishment,
beholding with your eyes, and being fully convinced in your hearts, of
the numbers that are likely to perish, yet may be spared, if they will
but imitate the blessed example of our Saviour’s faithful disciples in my
text, who being warned of their danger, cried out in time, Lord save us,
we perish: may sincere repentance work out your own salvation, may you
all have that timely notice, that not one of you may perish: may the
prodigal if there is any one among you be convinced of his error of life,
and with firm resolution of amendment return to his afflicted and
forgiving father: may the adulterer miss no opportunity of bewailing his
past sins, which are of the highest degree, implore for pardon and
forgiveness: may you all individually receive that impression in your
hearts and minds, that early repentance will get the dominion and conquer
sin: and that you may all be serene and calm when the awful and
melancholy hour of dissolution waiteth on you, and when the secrets of
all hearts shall be opened and disclosed, which to the young on the
pursuit of diversion and pleasure, may seem at a great distance; yet man
that is born of a woman hath but a short time to live, and so fast, so
fleet is the wing of time, that we are all soon brought to the same dust
from whence we are sprung, and as the fond father in the fulness of his
inexpressible joy, received his long absent son into his melting arms,
may we be received by that tender and merciful father, who wishes, not
even one of his children to be lost, but all to be saved.  May we be
worthy of his embraces who knows no bounds to pardon and forgiveness: may
God of his infinite mercy and wisdom inspire you all, with such
reflections on the great danger and perils of a sinful life, that you may
all arise and awake from the soporific and dark regions of sin and woe,
to a godly and virtuous life, that by the assistance of the divine will,
all mankind may shun and escape sleeping in eternal and everlasting
death, where sorrow and misery continually inhabit.

To conclude.  Let me exhort all this congregation to consider the great
value, and the inestimable blessings planted in our hearts of gratitude,
praise, and thanksgivings, and as God is entitled to it from every
christian heart, for every benefit man receives in private as well as in
public, let no one be deficient in this important duty, and according to
the advantage received, so great, as far as frail man is able to perform,
return it with gratitude in the best manner he is able.

Let me prevail on you to consider devoutly, for I am fully convinced you
cannot help continually thinking on the great, and signal mercies, so
recently poured down upon us, in such a miraculous manner, for let us be
ever so powerful, ever so skilful in any art or science, vain is the help
of man, if the Lord will not fight for us, and with us; and as it hath
pleased the Almighty to give us victory in the day of battle, shall we be
silent, or wanting as a nation, in every church, or house of prayer,
where public praise and thanksgiving are to be paid, not to express our
gratitude, and shew forth our praises not only with our lips but in our
hearts; shall we not say, Lord thou hast spared us from ruin and
destruction, thou hast given victory to our fleet, and saved us from
falling a captive prey: prepare our hearts and minds with a due sense of
thy power, and inspire us with such a great degree of humility, not to
presume we have gained the most compleat and naval victory ever obtained
by any nation? but on the contrary, that it was thy will, that we should
by thy aid and assistance, conquer an insulting and wicked enemy, and
make him fearful of continuing in the practice of what is hateful to
thee, and destructive to mankind.  Out of the deep, O Lord, have we cried
unto thee, and thou hast heard us, many hast thou spared, and many hast
thou taken unto thee; yet scripture comforts every christian in the
greatest sorrow and affliction; blessed are they that die in the Lord,
they shall be eased from their labour, therefore we may conclude, those
glorious and courageous heroes who have fallen into the deep in so
memorable and virtuous a cause, they will receive a crown of glory, and
their former sins thou wilt forgive, and receive them unto thee, for thou
hast succoured us.

This and every day is the day, in which we ought to give thanks, this is
the place, and in every place we ought particularly to commemorate God’s
mercies, but this most particularly, for here we ought not to have come,
without intending to perform acts of religious worship, and as we are
assembled in God’s holy sanctuary, let us offer our most solemn prayers
individually, in heart and voice, confessing without him, nothing is
strong, nothing is holy; unto Almighty God, therefore let us, and the
whole nation, give as our bounden duty, praise and thanksgivings; that it
hath pleased our gracious father to stretch forth his arm and protect our
fleet, and scattered our proud and insulting enemies, in the imagination
of their hearts.  This is becoming every good christian, every disciple
of the Lord, every virtuous nation, every regular society, every
christian parish, where virtue and religion are particularly professed,
and as I hope we are such, and have been as fortunate as the disciples
mentioned in my text: have cried out in good time, Lord, save us, we
perish; now therefore depart with these words of the Royal Psalmist, not
unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto thy name give the praise, for thy
loving mercy and salvation’s sake.  Happy are the people that are in such
a case, yea blessed are the people who have the Lord for their God.  Now
to God, &c. &c.

                                * * * * *

                                  FINIS.




***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A SERMON PREACHED AT KENSINGTON
CHURCH, ON JUNE THE 29TH, 1794***


******* This file should be named 62014-0.txt or 62014-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/6/2/0/1/62014


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

