The Project Gutenberg eBook, Letter to the Friends and Subscribers of the
Church Pastoral-Aid Society, by Rev. Caleb Whitefoord


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: Letter to the Friends and Subscribers of the Church Pastoral-Aid Society
       occasioned by a letter from the Rev. Dr. Molesworth


Author: Rev. Caleb Whitefoord



Release Date: May 16, 2020  [eBook #62144]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LETTER TO THE FRIENDS AND
SUBSCRIBERS OF THE CHURCH PASTORAL-AID SOCIETY***


Transcribed from the 1841 L. and G. Seeley edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org

                        [Picture: Pamphlet cover]





                                  LETTER
                                  TO THE
                         FRIENDS AND SUBSCRIBERS
                                  OF THE
                       CHURCH PASTORAL-AID SOCIETY.


                              OCCASIONED BY
                  A LETTER FROM THE REV. DR. MOLESWORTH
                                  TO THE
                         LORD BISHOP OF CHESTER,
               CONTAINING ALLEGATIONS AGAINST THE SOCIETY.

                                * * * * *

                    BY THE REV. CALEB WHITEFOORD A.M.

          CHAPLAIN TO THE INFIRMARY OF ST. JAMES’S, WESTMINSTER,
     DOMESTIC CHAPLAIN TO HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF ROXBURGHE AND TO THE
                     MOST HON. THE MARQUESS OF BUTE.

                                * * * * *

    Then I sent unto him, saying, There are no such things done as thou
    sayest,
    but thou feignest them out of thine own heart.  For they all made us
    afraid,
    saying, Their hands shall be weakened from the work, that it be not
    done.  Now,
    therefore, O God, strengthen my hands.

                                                     _NEHEMIAH_, VI. 8. 9.

                                * * * * *

                                 LONDON:
                   L. AND G. SEELEY, 169 FLEET STREET;
                       AND NISBET, BERNERS STREET.

                                  1841.

                            _Price Sixpence_.

                                * * * * *




SYNOPSIS OF THE SOCIETY.


OBJECT.—The salvation of souls, with a single eye to the glory of God,
and in humble dependence on His blessing, by granting aid toward
maintaining faithful and devoted men to assist the Incumbents of Parishes
in their pastoral charge.

PRINCIPLES.—That, in a Christian land, a Church established should
adequately provide for the spiritual instruction of all the people; and
that it is part of the duty of a Christian Legislature to furnish the
Church with means to this end: but that, if the Legislature should fail
of this duty, then, rather than souls should perish, Christians must join
together, to supply the deficiency, and make the Church as effective as
it is in their power to do.

PLAN.—The Church Pastoral-Aid Society strictly regards the wants of the
Church on the one hand, and the order of the Church on the other.  It
would make the Church efficient; it would carry the Gospel, by means of
the Church, to every man’s door, but it never intrudes its aid: the
Incumbent must apply for aid, or sanction the application; and until this
is done, the Society cannot move.  When aid is sought and granted, the
Parochial Minister must say how it is to be employed—he must nominate the
persons to be employed—he must engage them, as well as superintend and
entirely control them.  All that the Society does, is to provide for
their remuneration; and, while so doing, to ask satisfactory proof of
their qualifications.

                OPERATIONS.                       RESULTS OF AID.
Incumbents aided                        275  Grants now in operation:
Population under their            2,035,556    for Clergymen       230
charge
Average population to each            7,375    Lay-                 40
                                               Assistants
Average income of                      £163  Additional Churches and
Incumbents                                   Chapels:
Without Parsonage-houses                138    Opened               67
The Society’s aid is to provide                Proposed             59
  for Clergymen                         293  Addit. Licensed Places
                                             used as Chapels:
  Lay-Assistants                         42    Opened              106
Total charge on the                 £26,198    Proposed             20
Society, when all are in
operation, per annum
Charge of those now in              £20,908  Additional full Services
operation                                    established:
Income of the Society for           £16,176    On the              401
the year 1839–40                               Lord’s-Day
                                               On Week-days        172
                                             Additional            161
                                             Cottage
                                             Lectures

LETTER _&c._ _&c._


THE Rev. Dr. Molesworth, a Clergyman favourably known for some time past
by the publication of a periodical called the “Penny Sunday Reader,”—who
is likewise (as I perceive by the Advertisement appended to his Pamphlet)
Author of “Family Sermons for every Sunday in the Year,” and whose
promotion from a small benefice in _Canterbury_ to one of the largest in
the North of England was not long ago announced to the public,—has lately
signalized his zeal in another way, by coming forward in the character of
public prosecutor {3} against the “Church Pastoral-Aid Society:”—this he
does in a printed Letter addressed to his own Diocesan, and our respected
Vice Patron, the Bishop of Chester, containing serious charges affecting
the whole character and management of the Society.

The indictment sets forth, that the Society, in spite of professed
attachment to the Church, is in reality doing it the greatest injury, and
chiefly by the exercise of a _veto_ upon the appointment of parties to be
maintained upon its grants.  Dr. Molesworth therefore calls upon the
Society to put itself upon its defence,—to appear at his bar, and answer
to his indictment, upon pain of _sentence of outlawry_ to be pronounced
against it by all the orthodox.  He further presses upon the subscribers
and friends of the Society, as yet more friends of the Church, the
necessity of transferring their subscriptions from the “Church
Pastoral-Aid Society,” to the “Society for promoting the employment of
Additional Curates, &c.”{4}

This direct attempt to injure the Society, as well in its funds as more
vitally in its character, will make apology needless on my part for
following Dr. Molesworth in his appeal to the Society at large; little as
I may think his statements calculated to effect their design of weakening
your attachment to _this tried instrument_ (under God) of _so great an
amount of good_.  And not suspecting that the Committee acting for the
whole Society—a Society comprising in its members ten of the Episcopal
order (including Dr. Molesworth’s own Diocesan), many Church Dignitaries,
the Regius Professor of Divinity at Oxford, &c. &c.—is likely so to
forget what is due to itself, as to descend into the arena of controversy
at the challenge of an individual; I thought it open to any of the 1400
Clergy attached to the Society, against whom _the sentence of outlawry_
is to be passed, to accept Dr. Molesworth’s challenge upon somewhat more
equal terms.

The Society will naturally enough remark, upon a _primâ-facie_ view of
Dr. M.’s cry of alarm,—“We have all these learned and venerable Bishops
amongst us, these esteemed and valued Dignitaries; they would have
informed us, long ago, if we were justly chargeable with the evil Dr.
Molesworth has imputed to us:”—but either these learned and venerable men
must be far less careful for the interests of the Church than Dr.
Molesworth, or else (_not having sufficient discernment_?) failed to
discover, in the five years’ working of the Society, under all the
advantages of their connection with it, those evils which a single
observer at a distance, acting in the exercise of his private judgment,
has found so clear.  Happy for the Episcopal Bench, amidst all the
mischief Dr. Molesworth has _conjured up_, not only in the Society, but
in the Church, that there should be still left to them such a faithful
adviser, such a controller, such a corrector of their inadvertencies and
mistakes!  We shall presently see what testimony is borne by these
learned and venerable men to the character and services of the “Church
Pastoral-Aid Society;” when it will be for Dr. Molesworth to decide, how
far his statement can be made to tally with theirs; or otherwise, which
of the two we shall prefer.

Whether the Society is right or wrong in the exercise of its _veto_ upon
the nomination of parties to occupy its grants, is the main question at
issue.  A more satisfactory way of dealing with it, than by following Dr.
Molesworth’s arrangement,—which (with the exception of what he has culled
from the Newspapers in his Preface and Appendix) is the simple one, of
first saying all that can be said in favour of the Additional Curates’
Fund, and next, all that can be _imagined_ against the Church Pastoral
Aid Society,—will be, to place fully before you the simple and
intelligible principles upon which, in the question at issue, the Church
Pastoral-Aid Society acts.  I speak as one well acquainted with the
Society’s operations, but as having no other authority for what I say.

Dr. Molesworth affirms (p. 13) that this rule of the Society will not
abide “the sifting of _honesty_ and common sense.”  Let us see.  We
contend,

  I.  That unworthy men do intrude themselves into the sacred ministry of
  the Church.

  II.  That it is a principle not unknown to the Church, that those who
  provide the temporalities shall have a voice accorded to them in the
  selection of parties to benefit by their appropriation.

  III.  That to appoint such as unworthily intrude into the ministry of
  the Church to cure of souls, is to be “partaker of their evil deeds.”
  (2d Ep. John.)

In these particulars, it is presumed, will be comprehended a full
discussion of the question at issue.  By the first proposition, I intend
to shew the expediency of the _veto_; by the second, its lawfulness; and
by the third, its bounden obligation.

Previously, however, I would disclaim, for myself, and the cause with
which I would identify myself, all pleading at Dr. Molesworth’s
tribunal;—a conclusion to which I am forced by the perusal of his
Letter.—I appeal not to him;—and why?  I discover him to be an
_incompetent_, because an _unfair_ and _presumptuous_ judge.  These are
strong charges; and only to be warranted if borne out by proofs derived
from his own Letter.

To his revered Diocesan appeal would have been superfluous, who well
knows how to appreciate the becoming sneer at “_spiritually-minded_,”
“_evangelical_,” and every thing of that sort.  Indeed, a less-disguised
antipathy to real Religion, in my judgment, _these later days_ have
seldom witnessed,—at least in print, and from one of the Clergy.  My
appeal is to those whom Dr. Molesworth would seek to pervert (vide App.
p. 39), the friends and supporters of the Society: and I ask them,
whether Dr. Molesworth has not prejudged already, from the temper and
style of his pamphlet, the cause which he affects to put on trial?  A few
extracts will shew.  He commences temperately enough; calling for, in
page 7,

    “An abandonment of the objectionable test, or at least a clear and
    explicit understanding upon the character and designs of the
    Society.”  And adding, “The Society owes to itself as well as to the
    Church, an official vindication from the questionable (to say the
    least) _appearances_ against it.”

Such likewise was the tenor of his original Letter to the Manchester
Courier (p. 4).  But, as he warms upon his theme, he forgets this prudent
part of his plan.  Page 15, we find the _veto_ thus described:—

    “It is an _insidious_ plan;—it is a plan _fit for a society_ with
    _shabby_, _party_, _and sectarian_ designs, but not for a society
    _with simply and singly Church views_.  It places the Society above
    the Bishops and Archbishops,” &c.

Page 14, he had remarked—

    “I will not affirm that the rule was designed to be the instrument of
    a _shabby and crooked_ policy; but I will affirm, that if it _had_
    been so designed, it could not have been better _contrived_.”

The insinuation here conveyed is that amplified, as we have seen, in the
very next page, by which we may judge at what rate Dr. Molesworth
travels.—Page 20, he feels shy of saying that this rule _is_ the
instrument of “a _dangerous_ and _double-faced_ policy;” whilst he does
not hesitate to style (p. 23) those who have the working of the rule,
“_despotic_, and _irresponsible_” (!) managers.—The Secretary of our
Society (the Rev. E. B. Were) had wound up an unpleasant correspondence
(for it is always unpleasant to tell a man he will not do) with a layman
(Mr. Briarly Browne), whose friend, the Rev. Mr. Clark, had sought for
him a grant from the Society, upon which Mr. Briarly Browne was to be
ordained; brooding all the while, and hardly suppressing, considerable
ill-will to the Society in their hearts.  The endeavour on the part of
our Secretary to expose this unhandsome proceeding is stigmatized as “a
poor shuffling attempt” (p. 24).  _Previously_, Dr. Molesworth had
_admitted_ (p. 18) that this was done “_with some_, _but rather severe_,
_justice_.”  I pass by another charge, in the same page, of more serious
and offensive character, which Dr. Molesworth greedily catches up from a
Letter of Mr. Clark; intending to return to it by and by.  But after all,
nothing of this kind comes up to the appendix:—he has bade adieu to the
Bishop, and has got a little out of sight;—and now hear him:—what was but
_the lion passant guardant_ before, is become truly the lion _rampant_
now.  “The Society” (he says, p. 36), “_in the plenitude of their
super-papal authority_, _have __thought fit to declare_!!!”—and at the
end of the next extract—“Is not this _monstrous_?”  “Are these Church
principles?”  “Is such a tribunal of _intolerance_ and _sectarianism_!!
to stand forth and collect money, and to be advocated in our pulpits as a
Church Society?”

And now, friends and supporters of the Church Pastoral-Aid Society, are
you willing to be tried by Dr. Molesworth, or are you convinced that he
has made up his mind before you come into Court?  If the Society, or the
Committee it appoints as among its most responsible members, be deserving
of such _rank abuse_ as this, where is the need of inquiry?  Bad indeed
must the Society be decided to be;—bad in its principles, bad in its
management, bad in its officers; in short, all bad together.  Why, then,
does Dr. Molesworth dwell so tamely, at the outset, upon “_questionable
appearances which require vindication_”?  Wherefore does he affect to
call for “_a clear and explicit understanding upon the character and
designs of the Society_.”  (P. 7, and Letter to the Manchester Courier.)

If the matter needs no inquiry, why does Dr. Molesworth make a show of
demanding it?  And if it does, why does he approach the question in such
a predetermined spirit of hostility as to make _the proposal_, in his
case, _a deception_; shewing that he at least has settled the question
_before_ (as he admits) he has heard it.

There is no disguising it—Dr. Molesworth’s objection lies far deeper:
this will be seen, as we enter further into the consideration of his
attack.  _The ostensible grounds_ of objection shift about.  The
employment of Lay agents is now _the minor matter_ (pp. 18 and 19).  It
was the major, onewhile; but the Society having suffered as much loss as
the urging and mis-stating of that objection could inflict, and having
happily survived the injuries, _the major point sinks_, _and becomes the
minor_ (as you perceive), and _the minor is now the major_, and so on;
for reproach will never be wanting against a Society founded, supported,
and (under God) successfully worked by those whose religious sentiments
Dr. Molesworth treats with undisguised aversion.  Else why that strange
loathing of the very word “_spiritually-minded_”; so that he has actually
clipped it of a full syllable?  It is a curious fact, that the Rev.
Doctor has quoted this word (in allusion to the Letter of the Rev. Mr.
Were, Secretary to the Society), but always writing it thus,
“_spiritual-minded_,” no less than _eleven times in twenty pages_, and
evidently in a tone of derision.  Now, when a Doctor of Divinity takes up
a Scriptural term only _to disparage it_, and others by it; and actually
mistakes the orthography of the word, as though it were quite new to him,
and foreign to his taste; it is high time we should quote him the passage
at length wherein it occurs, and then leave it with him:—Rom. viii. 6:
“To be carnally-minded is death, but to be spiritually-minded is life and
peace.”

Dr. Molesworth can do justice to the Society in nothing; he cannot even
allow it its real title: yet one would think, that the good he is forced
to admit, to a certain extent, that the Society has done _in_ the Church,
and _not out of_ the Church, might, in a lesser sense at least, and
putting aside all courtesy to his clerical brethren in the Society,
entitle it to be called _a_ “Church Pastoral-Aid Society.”  Not so, for
(p. 25) the Society is a “_Lay Society_”!  What Dr. Molesworth does with
the _ten Bishops_, so high a Churchman as he would be thought, I marvel:
when _they_ are treated thus, his 1400 brethren of the Clergy will, of
course, go for nothing!  The title given us of “_Lay Society_,” however,
is adopted from the Letter of Mr. Briarly Browne; a layman himself, be it
observed, but who (_proh pudor_!) will not bestow the name of Churchman
upon Bishop or Archbishop, Dignitary or Parish Priest, so long as they
remain connected with this Society!  Might it not have served his turn to
have denounced the Society as a mixed Society of Lay and Clergy, an
unauthorised Society, or any thing more offensive that he pleased, which
would at least have spared the Church Dignitaries attached to the Society
_the insult_ of being reckoned as _laymen_, _or nothing_; and by which
this layman would not have set his clerical champion the bad example he
was not slow to follow, of _casting contempt_ (as I cannot but consider
it) upon the highest authorities of the Church.

Another, and the most unmeasured of all their charges against the
Society, is likewise adopted by the Doctor from the Letter of Mr. Clark,
that of “_raising money upon false pretences_!!!”  This, in other terms,
accuses the Society of _swindling_; and to this no defence will be
conceded on my part.  If the authors of the charge can believe it, I pity
them: in my judgment, it refutes itself.  Nevertheless, as an offence
cognisable by our laws,—they will pardon me the suggestion,—it will
afford them the very opportunity they appear to seek, of exposing, as
well as annoying, the Committee of the Society in open court; _provided
only the proofs are at hand_.

Little as I am disposed to bandy words, I might ask, if a Society, having
fully, fairly, and publicly declared its principles, (and I believe there
never was a Society which carried the practice to a greater extent,) and
had thereby published upon what terms its money was subscribed and its
grants made, so that there could be no mistake; and if others, knowing
and hating its principles equally, had, notwithstanding, proposed
themselves as parties to benefit by its funds whilst they eluded its
principles; who would be raising money upon false pretences, in that
case?

Here I cannot refrain from reporting an earlier specimen of the bad faith
the Society has experienced at the hands of those whose dislike it may
have merited by diligence in the Church Pastoral-Aid.  The facts are
known to the subscribers generally; but are again introduced here, to
shew, that when the “_minor matter_,” as Lay-agency is _now_ called, was
urged as the _major_, (before it had fallen so many degrees by Dr.
Molesworth’s _disciplinometer_,) the Society was not a jot the less
liable to misrepresentation and unkindness than now.

The following statement appeared in a work of a popular character,
published in 1838 anonymously, and called “_A Voice from the Font_.”

    “An Incumbent of a populous town in the West of England applied for
    two Lay-teachers, who were granted; but who, after establishing an
    acquaintance and intimacy with the parishioners, became Dissenting
    Ministers of the town, drawing to them those whom they had visited as
    the delegates of the Incumbent.”

This stood in the relation of a note, containing the proof, or
substantial part of an excellent argument against Lay-assistance and the
Church Pastoral-Aid Society.  Alas! the whole was pure invention.  But
all men are liable to err, and to derive information from incorrect
sources.  The publisher was therefore apprised, and the Editor of the
Church-of-England Quarterly Review, _which had copied the objectionable
passage_, written to.  The Author of the book, understood to be a
Clergyman, was appealed to: there could be no doubt of the mistake (to
call it by the mildest name); and the publishers, Messrs. Longman & Co.,
consequently received authority to paste over the note in all future and
unsold copies.

Now the Society thought that more was due to it: the libel had gone
through the length and breadth of the land.  So void of truth was the
statement, that, in point of fact, no Incumbent in the West of England
ever had two Lay-assistants _paid_ by the Society:—(to nominate them, I
beg to acquaint the “_Poor Parson_” p. 5, is always left to the Incumbent
himself); and _not a single instance_ has occurred, since the formation
of the Society, of any Lay-agent, supported by its means, becoming a
Dissenting Teacher.  Yet all attempt to obtain further redress was
hopeless: no sorrow was expressed by the party who had circulated _the
false report_; no proper feeling shewn for having wounded a
much-called-for Christian Charity;—no apology,—no reparation,—_no
answer_, in short, was given to the Society’s appeal!  I know not what
effect the relation of such injustice may have on other minds: it made me
the zealous friend of the “Church Pastoral-Aid Society:” previously
content with being its well-wisher, I had taken no part in its
proceedings: since then, I am thankful to say, I have.

Hitherto, my object has been, to expose the _animus_ of these attacks:
though painful, it was necessary to do so, lest any one should conceive
that Dr. Molesworth, and those who think with him, are men who may be
easily satisfied; or that by giving up one point, however vital, we
should silence opposition.  Does _the spirit_ displayed in their attacks
afford us any fair grounds for hoping this?  Was not Lay-agency first
attacked, as _the veto_ is now?  Does not the reproach of “_Lay Society_”
announce that the whole Society must be re-constituted, from the
top-stone to the bottom?  In short, these gentlemen _will be satisfied_
when we have given up every thing, and have nothing more left to give up.
Bear in mind, that they have already established a Society (a Church
Society they call theirs), for the same objects, upon their own model;—I
do not say, in opposition to, but a year or more after the Pastoral-Aid
Society.  One would think, if Dr. Molesworth could do justice to the
Society in any thing, it would be _as parent_ of _a child_ so hopeful, so
highly-prized, and so justly-commended by himself, as the Society for the
employment of Additional Curates &c.  Standing in this relation to each
other, it is painful to learn from Dr. Molesworth the probability of
their becoming “_bitter rivals_” (p. 27).  On the part of _the parent_, I
am sure, no such _unnatural_ sentiment prevails; and I trust it would
continue to be so, were the respective positions changed, and the
daughter _flourished_ as much, or more, than the mother.

Far more congenial to my feelings than the topics which have engaged us
hitherto, will be the discussion upon certain definite principles, as was
proposed, of the use of the _veto_.  My first proposition was a question
of fact scarcely requiring proof; yet indeed the whole argument depends
upon it: for could it be proved that no evil men exist in the Church as
ministers, then the Society’s rule would doubtless be unnecessary,
offensive, and chargeable with party motives.  But I assert,

I.  That unworthy men do intrude themselves into the sacred ministry of
the Church.

A proposition so plain amounts, in fact, to a truism; yet it affords in
itself, to my mind, and upon Christian principles, a sufficient
vindication of the Society’s rule.  Some escape the vigilance of the
Bishop at ordination; and some fall away, like the unhappy Dr. Dodd, and
others, from a state of considerable usefulness and credit.  Thus it was
in the earliest ages of the Church, and in the presence of extraordinary
inspiration.  A “_Demas_, _having loved this present world_,” forsook his
master: and Paul prophesied, that, after his departure from Ephesus,
“_grievous wolves_ should _enter in_, not sparing the flock.”  “Also, _of
your ownselves_,” adds he, “_shall men arise_, _speaking perverse
things_, to draw away disciples after them:” Acts xx. 29, 30.  Or,
without speaking of our own times, to come to times bordering upon our
own; who has not heard of an assembly of Divines of the Church of England
meeting for the purpose of obtaining relief to their consciences from
subscription to the Thirty-nine Articles, which they had already
subscribed?  These were men whom the Church Pastoral-Aid Society,
Low-Church, or No-Church as it may be called, would never have supported
from its funds, nor put itself in the way of doing so.  Leave it in the
hands of the Bishops to refuse their licence, is Dr. Molesworth’s
_panacea_.  Dr. Molesworth would throw all upon the Bishops.—And was it,
Dr. Molesworth, not left in the hands of the Bishops at that very time,
long before any Church Pastoral-Aid Society was heard of?

I know it will be thought invidious, in more ways than one, to take the
course I do, upon this proposition.  I may content myself with Dr.
Molesworth’s Apology to his Diocesan (p. 26), by affirming only with more
reason, that “the importance of the subject requires that no courtesies
should suppress _plain speaking_ upon it.”  Towards the Episcopal body I
would conduct myself with the utmost deference and respect.  In what I
shall say, I would refer but to the past.  Are not Bishops elected at
that time of life, in a majority of cases, which would preclude them from
acting very long with the promptitude and vigour which Dr. Molesworth’s
system would require?  A remark to that effect fell from the lips of good
Bishop Horne, as he ascended the steps to his episcopal palace at Norwich
for the first time.

It is blindness to expect in Bishops more than can be found in man—more
than was found in Apostles.  It is ill service to their cause and ours,
to load them with responsibility, to expect more of them than they can
give, teaching others the same lesson, and making (to use an obvious
figure) _the head_ the most active of all the members.  If the Bishops
are to depend upon the information of others, I may ask, Are ordinary
testimonials never unsound?  Does personal character always come out, in
divinity examinations before their chaplains?  Again, when corrupt men
are in the Church, who does not know the difficulty (perhaps in some
degree necessary, upon a balance of evils, and all things considered) in
removing them?  One case of that kind, in a diocese not far from the
metropolis, cost more anxiety, pains, and expenditure in the
Ecclesiastical Court to Bishop after Bishop (though the circumstances
were flagrant) than it would be possible for them often to repeat.  Here
we have a vindication of the Bishops upon the point of allowing corrupt
men to remain in the Church; and here we have the propriety of the
Society’s _veto_ confirmed, and the inexpediency of Dr. Molesworth’s
suggestion of laying all the _onus_ upon Bishops.

While men in holy orders are to be found devotees of the ball-room, the
card-table, and the race-course, in spite of the remonstrances of the
refined Bishop Jebb,—whilst men are to be found as ministers of Christ,
throwing the peculiar doctrines of the Gospel into the shade, in spite of
the indignation of Bishop Horsley against “the apes of Epictetus,”—it is
no time for those who are attached to the Church to lay aside precaution
against the mal-appropriation of consecrated funds.  At the (last?) Races
in _Canterbury_, which the magistrates tried to put down, on account of
the immorality and disorder attending them, a distinguished list of
Clergy was announced as having been present on the “grand stand;”—a
_grand stand_, indeed, for the Clergy!—I wish the statement were too
improbable to need contradiction.  It is found in a work written by a
Clergyman of the Church of England, reviewed in a daily print of
considerable circulation.  Provided it be true, are these men whom Dr.
Molesworth would have us receive “as faithful and devoted” without
question, of whose habits this appearance on “the grand stand” at
_Canterbury_ is a specimen?  The Committee of the Church Pastoral-Aid
Society consider, with Bishop Jebb, that they are _so far_ the reverse.
Our idea of _faithfulness_ would comprise the not being present, as
pleased spectators, in the resorts of immorality; and of _devotedness_,
the being far better employed.

Dr. Molesworth inquires (p. 24) what TESTS of character and
qualifications the Society uses.  Is the doctrine and discipline of the
Church of England none?  The question is raised, I suppose, because Dr.
Molesworth cannot disabuse his mind of the petty suspicion, that High and
Low Church (p. 28) are the points upon which the examination turns.  Does
Dr. Molesworth really suspect this?  If so, let me undeceive him at once:
the Clerical Committee of that Society are, I trust, as distinguished for
conformity and attachment to the Church as himself; and in this sense no
one could be nominated who was _too High-Church_ for them.  When,
however, we do all that is required of us, and give our TESTS more _in
detail_, what do we gain by it?  Dr. Molesworth finds nothing but
_vagueness_ in our requirements—_vagueness_ in what we find most
explicit.  “_Faithful_, _devoted_,” &c. (p. 15), “_is vague_;”
“_spiritual-mindedness_” “_is vague_” (p. 16), which is repeated (p. 22);
and an _admirable_ note in the next page (23), explaining the rejection
of a candidate, is spoken of as written in “_hide-and-seek phraseology_;”
where, as Dr. Molesworth formerly _clipped_, so now he _coins_ a word to
shew his little respect for the Society.  I do beg the attention of the
friends and subscribers of the Church Pastoral-Aid Society to the Letter
referred to {18}, not as an illustration of the Doctor’s _discovery_ of
what he is pleased to name “_hide and-seek phraseology_,” but as a very
luminous and compendious refutation of the Doctor’s _hard words_, and
aspersion of the _veto_.  The Poet speaks of things

                        “Dark with excess of light:”—

upon some such phenomenon, methinks, Dr. Molesworth must have stumbled,
as respects the Letter in question.  He professes to be quite in the dark
likewise—to which Mr. B. Browne led the way—as to the possibility of
discerning, _without looking into the heart_, _who are
spiritually-minded_ (p. 17).  Scripture holds out to him a candle: “By
their fruits ye shall know them!”  “The fruits of the flesh are
_manifest_:” Gal. v. 19.  The fruits of the Spirit, or
spiritual-mindedness, which are the reverse of the former, are likewise
enumerated in the same portion of Scripture.  But where individuals are
not known to us, how shall we judge? (for this I suspect is their last
shift.)  Simply by taking the judgment of those _who are
spiritually-minded_, _devoted_, _faithful_, and the like, and know the
candidate;—in short, the best testimony that can be obtained: there is no
mystery in the matter, the course taken in every inquiry as to character
is the course taken by the Clerical Committee and Secretaries, and one by
which the truth can seldom fail to come to light.  That I may not be said
to shrink from any part of this discussion, I come to the case of Mr.
Briarly Browne himself.—First of all, as to his testimonials.  Any one
knowing how unreflectingly testimonials of every kind are given, will see
the necessity of looking narrowly into them, when so great a matter is at
stake, as appointments, or the approval of them, in the Church.  It
cannot but be perceived by our friends and supporters, as well as by the
public at large, that the gist of the accusations against the Committee
is the care and strictness with which they discharge their trust.  In the
next place, the Bishop of Chester’s countersign to the testimonials of
the three beneficed Clergymen presented by Mr. Browne amounted to this,
that _they were Clergymen_ officiating in his diocese, and “_worthy of
credit_.”  Lastly, the testimonials themselves are, _to my mind_, both
guarded and limited in their expression, and not of a decided character.
The two first set forth briefly what _they believe_ Mr. Browne to be,
&c.: the third, more strongly I allow, states, that the writer has _every
reason to believe_, but (what?) the matter deposed to would appear both
meagre and insufficient to me, if it was all I had as recommendation for
a Curate or substitute for my own duties.

It can answer no good purpose to quote at length a correspondence which
the parties who think themselves aggrieved lost no time in sending to the
Newspapers.  I can only express my coincidence with the Secretary of the
Society, in thinking that the testimonials, (if) good as far as they
went, yet fell short of giving _full satisfaction_ as to “Christian
character and qualifications:” and since I would not flinch from the most
open discussion of the subject at issue, I will tell my Reverend
Brethren, Dr. Molesworth and Mr. Clark, the sort of testimonial which I
think called for by the occasion: for instance,—not only that I
“believed,” but that I was fully convinced, upon sufficient evidence, or
knowledge of the party, that he was both a sincere Churchman, and still
more a sincere Christian; preaching, or desiring to preach, the doctrines
contained in the Articles, and those in their proper order: first, “the
Name which is above every name,” (“for there is none other whereby we
must be saved,”) and afterwards every thing else in due subordination,
with no mixing up essentials and non-essentials as of equal worth: and
further, that his life exhibited tokens of his having been “born of the
Spirit,” by humility, meekness, temperance, devotedness, holiness, &c.,
as the case might be.  Such a testimonial surely could not be chargeable
with the spirit of party; nor is there any thing overstrained, I
conceive, in its language or requirements: and yet three such
testimonials, I feel certain, from persons of credit, would never be
rejected by the Committee.

I would fain be spared the entering upon any of the doctrinal
peculiarities of the day; but am bound, in conscience, to add, that if I
knew of any one holding the doctrine, condemned by the Bishop of Exeter
in his last Charge, of _reserve in communicating the doctrine of the
Atonement_, nothing more would be required, in my judgment, to call for
the exercise of the _veto_.—We can but do as we would be done by.  Let
Dr. Molesworth put himself in the position of the Clerical Committee:
would he recommend to others a Curate that he could not conscientiously
appoint himself? or would he _assent to_ the appointment of a Curate (for
that is more correctly our case), if he were trustee for another,
provided his own mind were not satisfied as to the fitness of the
individual proposed?  Is any one so simple as to believe that Dr.
Molesworth would take _the first person that offered_, or choose
_blindfold_ as it were, for his own Curate.  Many of our brethren, I
believe, delegate the choice of their Curates to friends in the ministry,
upon whose judgment they have more reliance than on their own.  What does
the Church Pastoral-Aid Society more than these (it does not half so
much)? except, that where its judgment is asked, it bountifully pays the
Curate that is appointed.

II.  But it might be argued, that allowing unworthy men did so intrude,
and establish themselves in the Church,—for the fact is indisputable,
making the necessity for vigilance manifest,—we could not meddle as a
Society, or Committee of Laymen, or Clergymen, either or both with a view
of repairing the evil, by rejecting nominations to our grants on account
of the character of Clergymen nominated to us, without violating the
plain order of the Church.  Is it so?—then where is it laid down? for we
should like to have the _very words of authority produced_; being most
unwilling to forfeit our protection of the _veto_, so strong a necessity
for which is shewn, unless the Church has spoken very plainly and
authoritatively against it.  All I can gather upon this subject from Dr.
Molesworth, is in the way of assertion, rather than of authority and
proof.  There is plenty of _surmise_ of evil to the Church, and
everywhere an _assumed_ departure from order on our part; but what proof
is given?  I am sure I cannot see it in the prayer for the Clergy and
people which Dr. Molesworth has alleged for that purpose.  What decree,
canon, or judgment of the Church, has he quoted?  As most decisive in the
controversy, I would by no means pass over that Scriptural argument from
Acts vi. 2, 3; where the whole “multitude of the disciples” were
solicited by the Apostles to select “men of honest report, full of the
Holy Ghost and wisdom,” to be afterwards ordained by themselves.  To
judge who were fit for the office of Deacon is here manifestly delegated
to the body of believers; and those we call Laity were constituted judges
as to who were “of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom.”
The multitude made choice because they had raised the common fund which
the Deacons were to distribute.

Let us come to the actual law and system of the Church.  Laymen,
consistently with the order of the Church, purchase or inherit, and
appoint to benefices; and afterwards the Bishop inducts.  This is in no
small degree analogous to granting the means for, and consenting to, the
nomination of Curates to the Bishops for licence.  Corporate bodies, as
the Haberdashers’ or Goldsmiths’ Company, without a Clergyman among them,
exercise the right of patronage over livings in their gift.  The Trustees
of new Churches or Chapels, commonly laymen, upon providing a certain
endowment, obtain Episcopal consecration for their edifices, and exercise
the whole right of selecting and appointing Ministers, to be afterwards
licensed by the Bishop; the consecration of their wealth to the Church
entitling them, I suppose, in the Church’s view, to this privilege of
nomination in return.  The parties I have specified make election
according to their views of Clergymen or applicants, their doctrine and
manner of life.  Nobody has ever objected to it, as far as I know at
least, as inconsistent with the present order of our Church.  Late Acts
of Parliament are enlarging the facilities by which the Laity erect and
endow Churches upon consideration of the selection and nomination of
Ministers being in their own hands.

If it were possible that the Church Pastoral-Aid Society, by the exercise
of a simple _veto_ upon the nomination of Curates to fill its grants,
should endanger the Church,—what if its object were changed, its funds
invested in Church property, and it had in its hands _the whole
appointment_ to as many livings as could be purchased with its annual
income; that is, of Incumbents, and Curates too, virtually;—a proceeding
against which no one would have a right to complain, or power to act, as
contrary to the principles of the Church?—If a Society may consistently
with the laws of the Church appoint to livings, why may it not exercise a
negative voice in Curacies?  If it may do the greater, why may it not do
the less?—The Church Pastoral-Aid Society asks for no right to nominate
or appoint, but only, that, in any appointment made by others to the
benefit of its grants, the Society should be satisfied that what it gives
is not, as we have seen it might be, unworthily bestowed.  Is this more
than the Church is in the habit of allowing, in return for the
consecration of wealth to God; or is it less?  Dr. Molesworth is very
sore on the subject of the _veto_.  P. 15, he asserts that the retention
of it makes the nomination, engagement, &c., promised to the Incumbent,
“a _mere bubble_.”  Suppose, then, that the _veto_ has been exercised as
one in ten, or one in twenty, (I speak in entire ignorance of the real
proportion,) would Dr. Molesworth affirm, that in the cases where the
Incumbent’s domination has been accepted at once, the _veto_ nevertheless
proves those nominations to be a bubble?  The nature of a _veto_ is well
known: at the most, it is but half, and the worst half, of an
appointment; for vigilance may be lulled, and resolution wearied out.
_Let not the Society_, _for the Church’s sake_, _be provoked to justify
itself in __detail for the use of it_.  In the blindness of his anger
against the _veto_, the Rev. Doctor declares that it makes the promised
appointment by the Incumbent “a _mere bubble_;” entirely overlooking,
that in the great majority of cases where the Incumbent’s nomination is
accepted, _the Curate is left thenceforward entirely under his controul_;
the Society losing sight of the individual altogether—for years it may
be—unless the Incumbent himself bring the appointment once more under its
review.  I thought it not beside my purpose to follow Dr. Molesworth at
this point upon the _effect_ of the _veto_; but my proposition is the
_lawfulness of the use of it_, which I have endeavoured to shew by the
analogy of appointments to spiritual offices, such as the Church allows
to the Laity, either individuals or Societies, in return for the
endowments they furnish.

Precedents are besides afforded us in the existence of other Societies of
much earlier date, exercising similar or greater powers, and recognised
by the Church.  The Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge, and (by
_special licence of certain gentlemen who have invented a standard for
the purpose of determining the fact_) _a_ CHURCH Society, patronized by
the whole Episcopal Bench, is likewise a Society very liberally
constituted; all members, Lay or Clerical, having a vote in the
proceedings.  Members are Clergymen or Laymen being Annual Subscribers of
a Guinea.  Now this Society, besides its dissemination of the Scriptures,
&c., has the credit of having instituted the first Missions in our
colonies abroad.  The great, the benign, the venerable Swartz—or, _may_ I
say, “the faithful and devoted” Swartz—was one of those employed in them.
Till of late, the Charges of the Society to its Missionaries appeared, as
a Tract for sale, on its Catalogue.

Here, then, we have a Society of the most liberal character, acting with
the _full_ concurrence of the Episcopal Bench, _selecting_, and
_appointing_, as well as paying Missionaries.  It is true, as the
Christian-Knowledge Society enlarged its operations, it transferred this
part of its business to a separate Society, the Society for Propagating
the Gospel in Foreign Parts, but the precedent still remains.  Before
that time, any member of that Society might have sat in judgment upon,
and a majority of Lay-members might have put the _veto_ practically upon
Missionaries nominated by the Clergy; or, _vice-versâ_, nominated the
Missionaries disapproved by the Clergy.  So I read the constitution of
this Church Society:—if I am wrong, there are many who will be glad to
set me right.  Members had, and must have had, the same power over
Missionaries that they originally had over Tracts; the same power that
they had over the appointment of all their officers.  Such, I say, was
the constitution, whatever may have been the practice of the Society: any
Member might have _stood upon his right_ to exercise a vote in the
appointment of Missionaries; and, furthermore, if the practice of the
Society in this respect had been to delegate its right to the clerical
members of its body, as best qualified to judge of the fitness of persons
for spiritual offices, this would only make the case more analogous to
that of the Church Pastoral-Aid Society, which confides the trust of
examining into the character of candidates for its grants solely to the
clerical members of its Subcommittee.

Follow the case to the Society for Propagating the Gospel in Foreign
Parts, which is likewise, according to the _exact discrimination_ of some
gentlemen, a Church Society.  Whatever difference may exist between it
and the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge, their constitutions in
one respect are similar; viz. that the governing body are a mixed
Committee of Laymen and Clergy, in whom must necessarily vest all
appointments and distribution of funds: if they should delegate the
nomination of Missionaries to their clerical members, they do exactly
what the Church Pastoral-Aid Society is doing; only with this difference,
that the Church Pastoral-Aid Society exercises a _negative_ and
_partial_, the others a _positive_ and _absolute_ voice in their
appointments.  It is time I should quote the actual Rules of one of these
two Church Societies, with whom the whole business of the Missions is now
lodged.  Rule XVII. of the Society for Propagating the Gospel is,

    17.  _That no Missionary be employed until the fullest inquiry has
    been made into his fitness and sufficiency_; _and that all persons
    applying for Missions shall produce testimonials_, _signed by three
    beneficed Clergymen_, _and countersigned by the Bishop of the Diocese
    in which those Clergymen are beneficed_.

What, Dr. Molesworth! a Society, a mixed Society, _examine_ and APPOINT
to sacred _offices_, _judging_ of _fitness_ and _sufficiency_: and not
only so, but AFTER testimonials by three Clergymen, countersigned by the
Bishop of the Diocese, &c.  Even so! and this is a Church Society!!  I
will not inquire, with the Rev. Dr. Molesworth (p. 16), “Upon what Church
principle are the testimonials of these men to be set aside, for the
vague affirmation that the candidate is” “not fit nor sufficient;”—but I
might do so with as much justice as Dr. Molesworth has shewn to the
Church Pastoral-Aid Society.

To guard against the intrusion of unfit persons to the sacred office,
every precaution is desirable: and I am by no means a less well-affected
member of the Society for Propagating the Gospel on account of this rule.
Dr. Molesworth may be affected in a directly opposite manner, and not
allow their practice to be any vindication of ours.  At all events, I
have made good my position: here are _Church Societies_ acting upon a
principle of appointment to sacred offices by Laymen and Clergy in union;
only carrying the principle much further than we have, and doing what our
Society has been all along particularly scrupulous not to do—has, in
fact, avoided upon declared principle—viz. hazarding an opinion upon any
question, when it has been previously before the Bishop.  If Dr.
Molesworth finds all these Societies equally to blame, pray let him do
_equal_ justice; and not reserve all his indignation for us, _the last_
and _the least_ offenders.  If he is looking back to the pure theory of a
Church, and losing sight altogether of its present position, let him
confess the fact: but it is evident, in that case, he must sue for a
fresh trial against us, and enlarge the terms of indictment; when we may
chance to find ourselves pleading in such good company as to cause us to
rejoice in the prosecution.  At all events, the Society stands guiltless,
at the present moment, of having more influence in the appointment of
spiritual persons than the Church grants to those who provide its
temporalities; and, furthermore, is not without precedent in established,
sanctioned, _Church_ Societies, for every step it has taken, and much
more.

III.  Having shewn that the _veto_ is expedient, and lawful, I next
proceed to shew that the exercise of it is a matter of Christian
obligation.  Who knows not that we are responsible for all our talents,
our time, influence, actions; those which we do by ourselves, and those
which we do by others, or enable others to do?  If by any remissness in
the management of funds set apart for sending _labourers into the Lord’s
vineyard_, grievous wolves, profane or worldly men, were introduced
instead,—a contingency which is not so remote, as we have seen,—how sad
the perversion! how painful the self-reproach!  To be not only not
attaining the good result, but in league with, and carrying on the very
opposite evil, would convict the Society of raising funds to be directed
against itself, and to its own condemnation.  We are parties to the
errors and to the sins of those men who work only at our bidding, upon
our wages.  With what consistency would a Society subscribing funds
devoted to the glory of God and the salvation of souls be afterwards
heedless of inquiring into whose hands they fell; knowing, at the same
time, that they might probably fall into such as would exhaust their
bounty indeed, but never advance their object?  Where is principle, if
men who do apprehend the definition of “faithful and devoted,” and
believe that such men alone can supply the spiritual destitution of our
land, could willingly hand over their funds to those of opposite
principles, upon no better plea than the cry of one man—in whom we cannot
have any particular confidence—that “the Church is in danger?”  We are
bound, with a wise economy, to husband our resources for God, especially
in the present disinclination or delay on the part of the State, to
provide for the moral destitution of its evergrowing population: and how
can we do this, unless we ascertain how those resources are applied?  To
give, is but a small part of our duty; but it is enough to involve us in
responsibility, as to the manner and measure, the application and effect,
of our gifts.  In short, of all matters over which conscience must
preside, and pronounce a verdict, there is none of more serious magnitude
and consequence than this, How shall I apply the funds contributed for
preaching the Gospel?  The Society must follow the law of conscience too:
and what men would not do as individuals—contribute to the circulation of
error, and the support of unworthy men as ministers of the Gospel—they
will not do as members of this Society;—they will earnestly, I trust
prayerfully, guard against it.  Would the friends and supporters of the
Society, whilst they remained _in doubt_ whether they were doing _good or
evil_ in the Church, and what character was borne by the Curates they
maintained, whether “faithful and devoted” or the reverse, (seeing that
both are to be found in the sacred office, the tares and the wheat
together,) make the exertion they now do—many of them, I believe, out of
their deep poverty—in support of the Society’s funds?  Enough has been
said, I think, to shew that it is no light thing, when it is required of
us to give up our power of influencing others for their good; no light
thing, when we are asked to provide funds for a minister, without
inquiring whether he is good or bad; no light thing, when we are asked to
lose sight of our responsibility in the application of gifts we have
devoted to the glory of God.

The last thing I proposed to lay before you was the testimony of the
highest authorities of the Church to the character and services of the
Church Pastoral-Aid Society;—I may safely challenge any Society in the
Church to produce a more favourable one.  The following was the tribute
of His Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury in the House of Lords, July
27th of the present year, in the debate on the Ecclesiastical Revenues’
Bill.  After stating that “nearly 3,000,000 of our Fellow-Christians in
this land are utterly cut off from the advantages of Religion and
pastoral superintendence,” the Archbishop adds, “The funds of Queen
Anne’s Bounty, for the augmentation of small livings, were only
12,000_l._ a-year; but considerable assistance in aid of that sum was
derived from _the Pastoral-Aid Society_, and the Supplementary Curates’
Fund.”  I notice, first, that if the Archbishop had thought the Society
was doing more evil than good with its fund, he never could have
mentioned it thus: secondly, that it is quoted as a Church Society, that
is to say, as belonging to the Church, and doing good service in it:
thirdly, that it is placed above the Supplementary Curates’ Fund,
according to its proper place, both on account of priority of date and
greater extent of usefulness.  Other tributes of our spiritual Heads
under Christ were given at the last General Meeting of the friends and
supporters of the Society in May 1840, a period not greatly preceding Dr.
Molesworth’s attack:

    The Bishop of LICHFIELD “_felt_, _on behalf of his diocese at least_,
    A GREAT DEBT OF GRATITUDE TO THIS SOCIETY; there being at that moment
    thousands, he might say tens of thousands, in that populous district,
    to whom _the word of God was faithfully preached_ every Sabbath-day,
    _who_, _but for the assistance of this Society_, _would have been
    without the means of grace_, _almost_, _if not altogether_.  But his
    satisfaction did not arise merely from these selfish considerations,
    but because _he approved of the general principles on which the
    Society was founded_, _and the plans on which it was carried on_.
    _Those principles and plans had been_, _in some instances_,
    _misrepresented_, _or perhaps_, _he would rather say_,
    _misunderstood_.  _There was an impression on the minds of many_,
    _that this Society preserved to itself a kind of jurisdiction
    independent of the ecclesiastical authorities_.  _Nothing could be
    more erroneous than that_.”

The Bishop of RIPON said—

    “He would willingly have been spared the necessity of addressing
    them, but that he had one strong motive for doing so; namely, that of
    declaring _the singular benefits which this Society had been the
    means of conferring_ upon the diocese over which he had the honour to
    preside.”

The Bishop of CHESTER said—

    “Over the space to which this Report refers, only seventy-one
    Clergymen were engaged for this population before the time when the
    aid of this Society came in; and this was _one great reason_, _among
    many others_, _why he should be grateful to a Society which had
    enabled him to look to the vast concerns under his care with so much
    less anxiety of mind_, _as to the means provided for their
    discharge_, _than he could otherwise have hoped to have done_.  _But
    there was still a vast amount remaining of the benefits which this
    Society had conferred upon the Church and upon the people_, _and
    which could never be stated in the words of a Report_.”

The Bishop of NORWICH said—

    “I willingly come forward in support of the Church Pastoral-Aid
    Society.  There are two Church Pastoral-Aid Societies: _they are
    called rivals_, _but they are established entirely and solely for the
    purpose of doing good_.  I welcome the introduction and success of
    the Society; and I heartily wish it God speed, and that it may
    prosper throughout the land.”

The Bishop of Winchester having been prevented by domestic affliction
from attending the last public meeting, and the Bishop of Llandaff being
absent in his diocese, their testimony is derived from public
declarations of a year previous, 1839:—

The Bishop of WINCHESTER:—

    “_He was bound_, _then_, _in the spirit of unfeigned thankfulness_,
    _to add his testimony and expression of gratitude to those already
    given_.  He, too, could refer to that part of the country over which
    he presided in spiritual things, as furnishing, to his own knowledge,
    an amount of obligation to the Society for the timely aid it had
    afforded to his clergy; and in many respects he could testify both to
    its direct and indirect usefulness.  He could point to the stimulus
    to good works which it had given in many quarters of his diocese, by
    the aid afforded through its instrumentality: he could point to
    subscriptions raised on behalf of additional churches; to
    school-rooms erected, and soon, as his Right Rev. Brother had
    expressed it, to be converted into places of worship, and endowed
    according to the use and form of the National Church.” . . . “_I
    rejoice in the existence of this Society_, _and am thankful to God
    for having put it into the hearts of many to aid this work of faith
    and labour of love_.”

The Bishop of LLANDAFF:—

    “The Right Rev. Prelate said, that though it might appear late in the
    day, he had been anxious to make amends for apparent neglect in past
    time, by taking part in the proceedings of the Society, and
    ESPECIALLY TO EXPRESS HIS BELIEF, THAT THAT PREJUDICE, WHICH FOR SOME
    TIME HAD KEPT MANY BACK FROM SUPPORTING THIS DESIGN, WAS ENTIRELY
    UNFOUNDED.  EXAMINATION AND EXPERIENCE HAD TAUGHT HIM, that general,
    religious, and benevolent purposes HAD ANIMATED THE PROCEEDINGS OF
    THE SOCIETY, and A CAUTIOUS AND SOBER-MINDED DESIRE NOT TO DEPART
    FROM THE TRUE DOCTRINES AND DISCIPLINE OF THE CHURCH.  HE COULD NOT
    BUT ADMIRE THE CHRISTIAN TEMPER AND ABILITY WITH WHICH THE SOCIETY
    HAD BEEN CONDUCTED, AND BY WHICH ITS MANAGERS HAD ENDEAVOURED TO LIVE
    DOWN ALL PREJUDICE AND OPPOSITION. HE LOOKED TO THIS SOCIETY, THEN,
    WHICH WAS NOT INFLUENCED BY A PARTY SPIRIT, AS A REMEDY FOR THE EVIL.
    He was happy to have this opportunity of testifying his cordial
    approval of the designs and operations of this Society.”

The late Bishop of CHICHESTER (as well as the present, a Vice Patron of
the Society), in supporting the Resolution, bore his testimony to the
excellent effects produced by this Society, not only upon the country at
large, but upon that sphere of Christian action over which he had the
superintendence.

There is but one Layman whose testimony I shall quote; for I know not
where I should find another worthy to be added to the above list, as an
equally devoted and energetic friend of the Church, and of this Society.
It is not so much Lord Ashley as President of the Society, I quote, as
Lord Ashley known and esteemed in every relation of life, public and
domestic, in office and out of office,—by the Court, the statesman, the
operative, and the Christian.  At the last public meeting, Lord Ashley
speaks thus:—

    “Perhaps in the history of all the Religious Societies, there was no
    parallel to the sudden rise and rapid progress of that which they
    were that day celebrating; no one on which the blessing of God had
    more immediately and more manifestly been bestowed.  It was the very
    thing demanded by the exigency of the times: and had accomplished, in
    proportion to its means, the entire object for which it was
    instituted.  Of its holy and beneficial effects on private life,
    wherever its labours extended, he would say nothing; they were amply
    and nobly recorded in the periodical Reports; but he would assert his
    firm and conscientious belief, that the operations of the Society had
    mainly contributed to abate the hostility that had raged against the
    Church of England; by making her known among those by whom she was
    little known, to render her honoured and beloved, and to enable her
    friends in another place to fight, under God’s providence, the great
    battle of our civil and ecclesiastical constitution.”

                                * * * * *

Here my labours might appropriately end, Dear friends and supporters of
the Church Pastoral-Aid Society! with giving you the voice of the highest
authorities of the Church in our favour.  All, therefore, I shall permit
myself to add, is an appeal to Dr. Molesworth himself—as one to whom we
bear no ill-will; as one who has not injured us at all, but rather
himself, by his late attack—warning him not again to peril his
respectable name on such an unjust and injudicious _tirade_ (for I can
call it nothing else) against this Society;—a Society so shielded from
his attacks, that he can only injure it through the sides of the Church,
of which this Society is as a specimen of the young wood, and vigorous
growth, from that old yet glorious stem, planted by the hands of the
Apostles, and rooted in Christ.  I exhort him to lay aside his prejudice
and his opposition, and join the Society—as many of our members, I hear,
have joined his; when we will work together, “the Lord being our helper,”
to make the Society as perfect as we can.  Then, surely, he would learn
to look at things in a more cheerful aspect, and with less jaundiced eye,
than to be raising a cry of “_schism_” (p. 9) in the Church—a reproach
which could hardly be expected, and would certainly be untrue (according
to any definition that I have heard of the word), even in the mouth of a
bigoted Dissenter.  I would appeal to the Most Reverend Prelate from whom
Dr. Molesworth’s preferment was derived (and whose known gentleness
should have taught the Clergyman whom he had preferred, “a more excellent
way”), not to suffer this unseemly _widening_ of _breaches_ in the
Church, if there be such; or, as I think, _opening them_, where they
would not exist without.  Is this “the comprehensive, healing, uniting
spirit of the Articles” (p. 15) which Dr. Molesworth loves?  If it is, I
hope he will pardon me for saying (for I wish we might part friends),
that his is the most _abstract_ love of the principle of which I can form
an idea.  For my part, I have never either made or acknowledged party
distinctions in the Church; nor will I be provoked to do so now.  The
Church I have ever wished to regard as one body, with that mixture of
unworthiness in members which is consequent upon the imperfect condition
of all things here below: and I trust I do honour the Church too much,
lightly to foment her distractions, or expose her troubles to her
numerous foes.  Yet do not mistake, Dr. Molesworth;—I value the Church
for the sake of the Gospel, not the Gospel for the sake of the Church;—I
value both Church and Gospel for their own sakes, and, by God’s blessing,
will support and defend both, according to my poor ability: but it is a
truth I am not ashamed to confess, that if by ‘Church’ is to be
understood the outward frame-work of this or any other Church, I value
the everlasting Gospel _even more_, and _much more_ than I do the
Church.—The Vicar of Rochdale may have time for controversy: I have not.
I have given him once for all what appeared to me to be a full and
satisfactory explanation of the points at issue: let the Society—those to
whom I address myself—judge.  I was quite unwilling that the Committee
should follow Dr. Molesworth to the field: I felt, therefore, the more
ready to give him the meeting myself.

                                              I am, &c.  CALEB WHITEFOORD.

_Hamilton Terrace_, _St. John’s Wood_,
            January 5, 1841.

NOTE.—“We feel some difficulty in adopting the nomination, not from _any
doubt_ of Mr.—’s moral character, or of his _activity_ in his
_ministerial duty_, but because we do not see that _evidence_ which _we_
desire to receive of the _orthodoxy_ of his preaching:—that _we_ are
deeply convinced that activity in the ministry can only be useful so far
as it is connected with the promulgation of those doctrines which are
taught in Holy Scriptures, and exhibited by the Church as the _prominent_
truths of Divine Revelation.  We do not mean to impute to Mr. —
deficiency in this respect, but _we_ wish to be _satisfied_ that his
_instructions_ are such as, under God’s blessing, will promote the _great
end_ for which our Society has been established—the salvation of souls
through the instrumentality of ‘faithful and devoted men.’”

_N.B._  A specimen of the “hide-and-seek phraseology,” from the
Collection of the Church Pastoral-Aid Society, presented by the Rev. Dr.
Molesworth.

                                * * * * *

            Printed by Richard Watts, Crown Court, Temple Bar.




FOOTNOTES.


{3}  What other inference can be drawn from p. 39 of the Appendix,—where
he says, “I have adduced strong cases, collected _with ease_, against the
Society.  I now lay myself out for them; and _request_ those Clergy, who
have been in similar circumstances with regard to the Pastoral-Aid
Society, to send me in their cases (_postage pre-paid_), and the
_documents supporting them_.”?

{4}  “Every _Churchman_ belonging to it should withdraw his support, and
transfer that support to the _liberal_ and _truly Church_ SOCIETY FOR
PROMOTING THE EMPLOYMENT OF ADDITIONAL CURATES.”  (The Italics and
Capitals are Dr. Molesworth’s.)  P. 39, Appendix.

{18}  See the Note at the end of this Letter.




***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LETTER TO THE FRIENDS AND
SUBSCRIBERS OF THE CHURCH PASTORAL-AID SOCIETY***


******* This file should be named 62144-0.txt or 62144-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/6/2/1/4/62144


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

