The Project Gutenberg eBook of Ditching Procedure, B-29s with
Four-Gun Turret, by Henry E Bergschneider

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Ditching Procedure, B-29s with Four-Gun Turret

Author: Henry E Bergschneider

Release Date: November 23, 2021 [eBook #66799]

Language: English

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson, Sue Clark and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DITCHING PROCEDURE, B-29S
WITH FOUR-GUN TURRET ***



HEADQUARTERS, PYOTE ARMY AIR FIELD

Office of the Director of Training

Pyote, Texas

12 June 1945

SUBJECT: Ditching Procedure, B-29's with Four-Gun Turret

TO: All Holders of 2AF manuals 50-26, 50-27, 50-37, 50-43, 50-56 and
    100-7 Sec. IV

1. In accordance with 2AF Ltr. 50-36, 2 June 1945, the inclosed
procedures are effective immediately and will be inserted in all copies
of the above-listed manuals now in use or to be issued for use.

By order of Lt. Col. ZUMWALT:

<signature>

HENRY E. BERGSCHNEIDER,

Major, Air Corps,

Training Secretary.




(2AF Manuals 50-26, 50-27, 50-56, 50-37, 50-43, 100-7 Sec. IV. Rev 2
June 1945.)

DITCHING PROCEDURE

1. The first series of ditching positions for the B-29 were suggested by
the "BOEING AIRCRAFT COMPANY", manufacturers of the aircraft. These
positions were on trial, but were as logical as could be devised without
actual ditching experience. The Boeing procedure and its various
modifications have all been steps in the right direction. Changes have
been based on actual ditching experience and procedures set forth here
are results of all ditching experiences to date. They are not to be
considered permanent. As new ditching characteristics of the B-29 are
learned, they will be incorporated to assure the safest procedures
possible.

2. The importance of these approved methods cannot be stressed too
highly. Modifications in these procedures may NOT be made at the
discretion of the airplane commander.

3. Experience to date proves that ditching characteristics of the B-29
are superior to those of any other aircraft now used by the Army Air
Forces. The greatest factor in ditching is the airplane's buoyancy
qualities. The B-29 has demonstrated, even during mediocre ditchings,
that it will stay afloat for long periods and does not sink easily. On a
moderately successful ditching, the aircraft is apt to stay afloat for
at least ten (10) minutes and may float for several hours.

4. Ditching impacts are severe. Every precaution must be taken to pad
against impact in the ditching position. Parachute, cushions, clothing,
etc., will be used for this purpose. During impact the individual's head
must be well protected. The flak helmet will be worn only when the head
can be braced against something substantial. In all positions, the legs
should be flexed to absorb the effects of a sudden jar.

5. When injured crew members are aboard they will be put in the proper
positions and/or supported between the legs of other crew position. This
may be difficult, but it has proven successful on numerous occasions.

6. Ditching position practice, as a part of completed ditching drill, is
a "MUST" for all combat crews. Every step in ditching procedure must be
practiced and learned thoroughly by the entire crew as a unit, in order
to eliminate confusion. Practice it against time until the entire
process becomes second nature.

Paragraphs 7 through 91 are Ditching Procedure instructions for the
various B-29 crew positions. These are reproduced separately for
insertion in the applicable S.O.P.'s for these positions.

92. If time permits, take one or more parachutes from the ditched
aircraft. The silk can be used to catch rain water and the shrouds have
no end of use. The web belt, which supports the canteen, should be
buckled on after removal of flak vests.

93. Prior to ditching all escape hatches will be jettisoned or opened to
prevent jamming in the event that the fuselage accordions.

94. An important phase of crew cooperation is the estimation of time
remaining aloft and the position where the ditching will take place. The
most efficient Air-Sea Rescue Agency is only as efficient as the
cooperation it receives from crews in distress. The rescue agency must
get notification of the ditching and the position. Crews must practice
transmitting procedure until it becomes S.O.P. The engineer, with the
information available, will make an estimate as to the time remaining
aloft. This information will to passed to the navigator, who, on the
basis of the information supplied, will estimate the position of
ditching. The position will be given to the radio operator who will
transmit the information to personnel who can effect a rescue.

95. This system of cooperation will not always be applicable, but it is
a framework for crew cooperation.

EQUIPMENT:

96. Combat crews are subject to last-minute changes in aircraft.
Therefore, it is essential to standardize the location of emergency
equipment within the aircraft. Individual responsibility for the removal
of this equipment must also be fixed.

97. The locations of the emergency equipment are based on their
accessibility for the crews when in ditching position.

98. The later B-29 aircraft are equipped with the new modified E-2 raft.
This raft has its accessory kit lashed to the raft itself. The older
type utilizes the A-3 raft which stows the accessory kit in the airplane
proper.

CHANGES:

99. As new developments are made in the Air-Sea Rescue field, existing
procedures and equipment will be modified. Research in this field is
being conducted in the United States as well as in the theatres of
operation. The new information, as it becomes available, will to
disseminated to the units of the command via publications and by
Personal Equipment Officers.

                      ----------END----------

100. A combat crew thoroughly trained in procedures and equipment is a
crew with plenty of life assurance which may, one day, pay the largest
kind of dividend----HUMAN LIFE------.




[Transcriber's Note: On this page in the original, the "DITCHING
PROCEDURE" block shown below (items "a" through "i" and the two "NB"
items) was struck out with a large, red "X". Revised Radio Operator
ditching procedure instructions were provided on the subsequent page.]


                         B-29--11-MAN CREW

RADIO OPERATOR                                        DITCHING PROCEDURE

a. Acknowledge in turn: "RADIO OPERATOR DITCHING."

b. Remove parachute harness, flak suit and winter flying boots.

c. Transmit position, course, altitude, and ground speed as received
from Navigator on DF. Relay fix or bearings obtained to Navigator.

d. Give DF contact all data without waiting too long for answer.

e. Destroy classified material.

f. Continue to send emergency signals. On command, from Pilot to take
ditching position, screw down transmitter key.

g. Remain at Radio Operator's seat with safety belt fastened, resting
cushioned back and head against upper turret wall.

h. After airplane comes to rest, exit through astrodome.

i. Inflate life vest and proceed to right wing.

NB Get Gibson Girl (SCR578) out.

NB On two gun turrets seated on floor back against read of Engineer's
panel, or braced in seat.


                                                           CRASH LANDING

a. Sends position report obtained from Navigator.

b. Take sitting position on floor with back against Pilot's armor
plate. Squeeze in with Flight Engineer and brace foot across the aisle.
Pad with chute and cushion.

Exit: Pilot's (right) window. 2EX, Engineer's hatch.

Quick Crash: Lay on floor with feet against engineer's panel or ditching
position.


                                                                 BAILOUT

a. Destroy classified material etc.

b. Send position obtained from Navigator.

   Exit: 1st man out nose wheel well. 2EX, bomb-bay.




[Transcriber's Note: Two different pages were in the original for the
Radio Operator's Ditching Procedure. This is the second page.]


      2 June 1945    Emergency Procedure B-29    11 or 12 Man Crew

Radio Operator                                        Ditching Procedure

a. Acknowledge in turn. "RADIO OPERATOR DITCHING."

b. Remove parachute harness, flak suit, and winter flying boots. Wear
flying gloves if possible.

c. Destroy classified materials: Check IFF setting.

d. Continue to send emergency signals. On command of the Pilot, clamp
down transmitter key.

e. Lower the trailing antenna full length, watch current meter and
notify AC of height above water when it grounds. (100-110 feet)

f. Pocket remaining two smoke grenades or put in shirt front. Keep
grenades in cases.

g. Remain in position with safety belt fastened; facing aft, with back,
shoulders and head pressing against upper turret wall as close to center
as possible, cushioning back and head with parachutes, bracing legs
against bulkhead.

h. After forward movement of aircraft has ceased, pull both life raft
release handles.

i. Exit through astrodome to right life raft.

N.B. Set Gibson Girl (SCR 578) out.


Radio Operator                                             Crash Landing

a. Sends position report obtained from Navigator.

b. Take sitting position on floor with back against Pilot's armor
plate. Squeeze in with Flight Engineer and brace foot across the aisle.
Pad with chute and cushion.

Exit: Engineer's hatch. Secondary Exit: Pilot's window.


Radio Operator                                                   Bailout

a. Destroy classified material.

b. Send position obtained from Navigator.

Exit: Nose wheel well, 2nd. Secondary Exit: Bomb-bay.


Radio Operator                                                  Take-Off

a. Take-off position: In seat.

b. Procedure: Fasten safety belt. Face aft and brace head with hands
behind neck, shoulders and back against upper turret. If time permits,
remove astrodome prior to crash.

c. Exit: Remove parachute and exit through astrodome.




[Transcriber's note: To allow the information in the FUSE CHART to be
presented within page width restraints, the original table has been
reformatted into a multi-line format.]

              RADIO OPERATORS SUPER-FORTRESS FUSE CHART

RADIO SET
  FUSE RATING
  NUMBER AND LOCATION
  PURPOSE

274N COMMAND RECEIVER
  10 Amp.
  One active and one spare in each rec.
  In low V. line to dyn.

274N COMMAND MODULATOR
  20 Amp.
  2 active on right end of modulator and two spare on the left end
  In low V. line to dyn. in L.V. line to heaters.

348 LIAISON RECEIVER
  5 Amp.
  In the receiver proper.
  In L.V. line to dyn.

AN/ART-13 COLLINS TRANSMITTER.
  1 Amp.
  In dynamotor proper.
    Breaks H.V. line if press. relay fails.
  Two circuit breakers on the base of the Collins dyn.
    In L.V. input to dyn & L.V. input Xmitter.

269G or AN/ARN 7 RADIO COMP.
  5 Amp.
  One active and one spare in radio compass relay shield.
  Removes 115 V. 400 cycle from set.

RC-43 MARKER BEACON RECEIVER
  10 Amp.
  One active and one spare in radio compass relay shield.
  Removes L.V. from Radio Comp. & Marker Beacon.

RC-36-B Interphone
  15 Amp.
  1 active & 1 spare in radio comp. relay shld.
  In L.V. line to dyn.

AN/AIC-2 Interphone
  One circuit breaker somewhere near the amplifier.
  In L.V. line to dyn.

ANTENNA REEL
  10 Amp.
  Between bomb bays in fuse box #183
  Removes L.V. from motor.

ANTENNA REEL RELAY
  2 Amp.
  1 active & 1 spare in radio comp. relay shld.
  Removes L.V. from relay.

522 VHF COMMAND
  40 Amp.
  Fuse box #862 located on right side fire control room. May have reset
    switch instead.
  In L.V. line to dynamotor

595/695 IFF
  10 Amp.
  1 active & 1 spare in radio comp. relay shld.
  In L.V. line to dynamotor

RADIO OPERATORS SUIT
  20 Amp.
  Engineers Aft fuse panel.
  Removes power from suit.

RC 103 (B/L) BC-733-D Lateral receiver.
   10 Amp.
   One active and one spare in Junction Shield, fuse box #586 located
     behind A/C seat.
   In L.V. line to dynamotor

AN-ARN-5A (B/L) R-89/ARN-5A Vertical glide path receiver.
  10 amp circuit breaker
  On front of Junction Shield, (fuse box #586) behind A/C's seat.
  In L.V. input to the set. The set has no dynamotor.




Transcriber's notes:

    This is the ditching procedure specifically for a Radio Operator on
    a B-29.

    In item #93, "all excape hatches" changed to "all escape hatches".

    Correction in original to first ditching procedure, "BAILOUT"
    section, item "b.": "1st man out" (typed) changed to "2nd man out"
    (handwritten.)

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DITCHING PROCEDURE, B-29S WITH
FOUR-GUN TURRET ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
