The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Bible, King James version, Book 8: Ruth
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Bible, King James version, Book 8: Ruth

Author: Anonymous

Release date: April 1, 2005 [eBook #8008]
                Most recently updated: December 26, 2020

Language: English

Credits: This eBook was produced by David Widger with the help of Derek Andrew's text from January 1992 and the work of Bryan Taylor in November 2002


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BIBLE, KING JAMES VERSION, BOOK 8: RUTH ***




This eBook was produced by David Widger
with the help of Derek Andrew's text from January 1992
and the work of Bryan Taylor in November 2002.




Book 08        Ruth

08:001:001 Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled, that
           there was a famine in the land. And a certain man of
           Bethlehemjudah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he, and
           his wife, and his two sons.

08:001:002 And the name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his
           wife Naomi, and the name of his two sons Mahlon and Chilion,
           Ephrathites of Bethlehemjudah. And they came into the country
           of Moab, and continued there.

08:001:003 And Elimelech Naomi's husband died; and she was left, and her
           two sons.

08:001:004 And they took them wives of the women of Moab; the name of the
           one was Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth: and they
           dwelled there about ten years.

08:001:005 And Mahlon and Chilion died also both of them; and the woman
           was left of her two sons and her husband.

08:001:006 Then she arose with her daughters in law, that she might
           return from the country of Moab: for she had heard in the
           country of Moab how that the LORD had visited his people in
           giving them bread.

08:001:007 Wherefore she went forth out of the place where she was, and
           her two daughters in law with her; and they went on the way to
           return unto the land of Judah.

08:001:008 And Naomi said unto her two daughters in law, Go, return each
           to her mother's house: the LORD deal kindly with you, as ye
           have dealt with the dead, and with me.

08:001:009 The LORD grant you that ye may find rest, each of you in the
           house of her husband. Then she kissed them; and they lifted up
           their voice, and wept.

08:001:010 And they said unto her, Surely we will return with thee unto
           thy people.

08:001:011 And Naomi said, Turn again, my daughters: why will ye go with
           me? are there yet any more sons in my womb, that they may be
           your husbands?

08:001:012 Turn again, my daughters, go your way; for I am too old to
           have an husband. If I should say, I have hope, if I should
           have an husband also to night, and should also bear sons;

08:001:013 Would ye tarry for them till they were grown? would ye stay
           for them from having husbands? nay, my daughters; for it
           grieveth me much for your sakes that the hand of the LORD is
           gone out against me.

08:001:014 And they lifted up their voice, and wept again: and Orpah
           kissed her mother in law; but Ruth clave unto her.

08:001:015 And she said, Behold, thy sister in law is gone back unto her
           people, and unto her gods: return thou after thy sister in
           law.

08:001:016 And Ruth said, Intreat me not to leave thee, or to return from
           following after thee: for whither thou goest, I will go; and
           where thou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people shall be my
           people, and thy God my God:

08:001:017 Where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried: the
           LORD do so to me, and more also, if ought but death part thee
           and me.

08:001:018 When she saw that she was stedfastly minded to go with her,
           then she left speaking unto her.

08:001:019 So they two went until they came to Bethlehem. And it came to
           pass, when they were come to Bethlehem, that all the city was
           moved about them, and they said, Is this Naomi?

08:001:020 And she said unto them, Call me not Naomi, call me Mara: for
           the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me.

08:001:021 I went out full and the LORD hath brought me home again empty:
           why then call ye me Naomi, seeing the LORD hath testified
           against me, and the Almighty hath afflicted me?

08:001:022 So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitess, her daughter in
           law, with her, which returned out of the country of Moab: and
           they came to Bethlehem in the beginning of barley harvest.

08:002:001 And Naomi had a kinsman of her husband's, a mighty man of
           wealth, of the family of Elimelech; and his name was Boaz.

08:002:002 And Ruth the Moabitess said unto Naomi, Let me now go to the
           field, and glean ears of corn after him in whose sight I shall
           find grace. And she said unto her, Go, my daughter.

08:002:003 And she went, and came, and gleaned in the field after the
           reapers: and her hap was to light on a part of the field
           belonging unto Boaz, who was of the kindred of Elimelech.

08:002:004 And, behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem, and said unto the
           reapers, The LORD be with you. And they answered him, The LORD
           bless thee.

08:002:005 Then said Boaz unto his servant that was set over the reapers,
           Whose damsel is this?

08:002:006 And the servant that was set over the reapers answered and
           said, It is the Moabitish damsel that came back with Naomi out
           of the country of Moab:

08:002:007 And she said, I pray you, let me glean and gather after the
           reapers among the sheaves: so she came, and hath continued
           even from the morning until now, that she tarried a little in
           the house.

08:002:008 Then said Boaz unto Ruth, Hearest thou not, my daughter? Go
           not to glean in another field, neither go from hence, but
           abide here fast by my maidens:

08:002:009 Let thine eyes be on the field that they do reap, and go thou
           after them: have I not charged the young men that they shall
           not touch thee? and when thou art athirst, go unto the
           vessels, and drink of that which the young men have drawn.

08:002:010 Then she fell on her face, and bowed herself to the ground,
           and said unto him, Why have I found grace in thine eyes, that
           thou shouldest take knowledge of me, seeing I am a stranger?

08:002:011 And Boaz answered and said unto her, It hath fully been shewed
           me, all that thou hast done unto thy mother in law since the
           death of thine husband: and how thou hast left thy father and
           thy mother, and the land of thy nativity, and art come unto a
           people which thou knewest not heretofore.

08:002:012 The LORD recompense thy work, and a full reward be given thee
           of the LORD God of Israel, under whose wings thou art come to
           trust.

08:002:013 Then she said, Let me find favour in thy sight, my lord; for
           that thou hast comforted me, and for that thou hast spoken
           friendly unto thine handmaid, though I be not like unto one of
           thine handmaidens.

08:002:014 And Boaz said unto her, At mealtime come thou hither, and eat
           of the bread, and dip thy morsel in the vinegar. And she sat
           beside the reapers: and he reached her parched corn, and she
           did eat, and was sufficed, and left.

08:002:015 And when she was risen up to glean, Boaz commanded his young
           men, saying, Let her glean even among the sheaves, and
           reproach her not:

08:002:016 And let fall also some of the handfuls of purpose for her, and
           leave them, that she may glean them, and rebuke her not.

08:002:017 So she gleaned in the field until even, and beat out that she
           had gleaned: and it was about an ephah of barley.

08:002:018 And she took it up, and went into the city: and her mother in
           law saw what she had gleaned: and she brought forth, and gave
           to her that she had reserved after she was sufficed.

08:002:019 And her mother in law said unto her, Where hast thou gleaned
           to day? and where wroughtest thou? blessed be he that did take
           knowledge of thee. And she shewed her mother in law with whom
           she had wrought, and said, The man's name with whom I wrought
           to day is Boaz.

08:002:020 And Naomi said unto her daughter in law, Blessed be he of the
           LORD, who hath not left off his kindness to the living and to
           the dead. And Naomi said unto her, The man is near of kin unto
           us, one of our next kinsmen.

08:002:021 And Ruth the Moabitess said, He said unto me also, Thou shalt
           keep fast by my young men, until they have ended all my
           harvest.

08:002:022 And Naomi said unto Ruth her daughter in law, It is good, my
           daughter, that thou go out with his maidens, that they meet
           thee not in any other field.

08:002:023 So she kept fast by the maidens of Boaz to glean unto the end
           of barley harvest and of wheat harvest; and dwelt with her
           mother in law.

08:003:001 Then Naomi her mother in law said unto her, My daughter, shall
           I not seek rest for thee, that it may be well with thee?

08:003:002 And now is not Boaz of our kindred, with whose maidens thou
           wast? Behold, he winnoweth barley to night in the
           threshingfloor.

08:003:003 Wash thyself therefore, and anoint thee, and put thy raiment
           upon thee, and get thee down to the floor: but make not
           thyself known unto the man, until he shall have done eating
           and drinking.

08:003:004 And it shall be, when he lieth down, that thou shalt mark the
           place where he shall lie, and thou shalt go in, and uncover
           his feet, and lay thee down; and he will tell thee what thou
           shalt do.

08:003:005 And she said unto her, All that thou sayest unto me I will do.

08:003:006 And she went down unto the floor, and did according to all
           that her mother in law bade her.

08:003:007 And when Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he
           went to lie down at the end of the heap of corn: and she came
           softly, and uncovered his feet, and laid her down.

08:003:008 And it came to pass at midnight, that the man was afraid, and
           turned himself: and, behold, a woman lay at his feet.

08:003:009 And he said, Who art thou? And she answered, I am Ruth thine
           handmaid: spread therefore thy skirt over thine handmaid; for
           thou art a near kinsman.

08:003:010 And he said, Blessed be thou of the LORD, my daughter: for
           thou hast shewed more kindness in the latter end than at the
           beginning, inasmuch as thou followedst not young men, whether
           poor or rich.

08:003:011 And now, my daughter, fear not; I will do to thee all that
           thou requirest: for all the city of my people doth know that
           thou art a virtuous woman.

08:003:012 And now it is true that I am thy near kinsman: howbeit there
           is a kinsman nearer than I.

08:003:013 Tarry this night, and it shall be in the morning, that if he
           will perform unto thee the part of a kinsman, well; let him do
           the kinsman's part: but if he will not do the part of a
           kinsman to thee, then will I do the part of a kinsman to thee,
           as the LORD liveth: lie down until the morning.

08:003:014 And she lay at his feet until the morning: and she rose up
           before one could know another. And he said, Let it not be
           known that a woman came into the floor.

08:003:015 Also he said, Bring the vail that thou hast upon thee, and
           hold it. And when she held it, he measured six measures of
           barley, and laid it on her: and she went into the city.

08:003:016 And when she came to her mother in law, she said, Who art
           thou, my daughter? And she told her all that the man had done
           to her.

08:003:017 And she said, These six measures of barley gave he me; for he
           said to me, Go not empty unto thy mother in law.

08:003:018 Then said she, Sit still, my daughter, until thou know how the
           matter will fall: for the man will not be in rest, until he
           have finished the thing this day.

08:004:001 Then went Boaz up to the gate, and sat him down there: and,
           behold, the kinsman of whom Boaz spake came by; unto whom he
           said, Ho, such a one! turn aside, sit down here. And he turned
           aside, and sat down.

08:004:002 And he took ten men of the elders of the city, and said, Sit
           ye down here. And they sat down.

08:004:003 And he said unto the kinsman, Naomi, that is come again out of
           the country of Moab, selleth a parcel of land, which was our
           brother Elimelech's:

08:004:004 And I thought to advertise thee, saying, Buy it before the
           inhabitants, and before the elders of my people. If thou wilt
           redeem it, redeem it: but if thou wilt not redeem it, then
           tell me, that I may know: for there is none to redeem it
           beside thee; and I am after thee. And he said, I will redeem
           it.

08:004:005 Then said Boaz, What day thou buyest the field of the hand of
           Naomi, thou must buy it also of Ruth the Moabitess, the wife
           of the dead, to raise up the name of the dead upon his
           inheritance.

08:004:006 And the kinsman said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I
           mar mine own inheritance: redeem thou my right to thyself; for
           I cannot redeem it.

08:004:007 Now this was the manner in former time in Israel concerning
           redeeming and concerning changing, for to confirm all things;
           a man plucked off his shoe, and gave it to his neighbour: and
           this was a testimony in Israel.

08:004:008 Therefore the kinsman said unto Boaz, Buy it for thee. So he
           drew off his shoe.

08:004:009 And Boaz said unto the elders, and unto all the people, Ye are
           witnesses this day, that I have bought all that was
           Elimelech's, and all that was Chilion's and Mahlon's, of the
           hand of Naomi.

08:004:010 Moreover Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of Mahlon, have I
           purchased to be my wife, to raise up the name of the dead upon
           his inheritance, that the name of the dead be not cut off from
           among his brethren, and from the gate of his place: ye are
           witnesses this day.

08:004:011 And all the people that were in the gate, and the elders,
           said, We are witnesses. The LORD make the woman that is come
           into thine house like Rachel and like Leah, which two did
           build the house of Israel: and do thou worthily in Ephratah,
           and be famous in Bethlehem:

08:004:012 And let thy house be like the house of Pharez, whom Tamar bare
           unto Judah, of the seed which the LORD shall give thee of this
           young woman.

08:004:013 So Boaz took Ruth, and she was his wife: and when he went in
           unto her, the LORD gave her conception, and she bare a son.

08:004:014 And the women said unto Naomi, Blessed be the LORD, which hath
           not left thee this day without a kinsman, that his name may be
           famous in Israel.

08:004:015 And he shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life, and a
           nourisher of thine old age: for thy daughter in law, which
           loveth thee, which is better to thee than seven sons, hath
           born him.

08:004:016 And Naomi took the child, and laid it in her bosom, and became
           nurse unto it.

08:004:017 And the women her neighbours gave it a name, saying, There is
           a son born to Naomi; and they called his name Obed: he is the
           father of Jesse, the father of David.

08:004:018 Now these are the generations of Pharez: Pharez begat Hezron,

08:004:019 And Hezron begat Ram, and Ram begat Amminadab,

08:004:020 And Amminadab begat Nahshon, and Nahshon begat Salmon,

08:004:021 And Salmon begat Boaz, and Boaz begat Obed,

08:004:022 And Obed begat Jesse, and Jesse begat David.







*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BIBLE, KING JAMES VERSION, BOOK 8: RUTH ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


