The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Bible, King James version, Book 32: Jonah
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Bible, King James version, Book 32: Jonah

Author: Anonymous

Release date: April 1, 2005 [eBook #8032]
                Most recently updated: December 26, 2020

Language: English

Credits: This eBook was produced by David Widger with the help of Derek Andrew's text from January 1992 and the work of Bryan Taylor in November 2002


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BIBLE, KING JAMES VERSION, BOOK 32: JONAH ***




This eBook was produced by David Widger
with the help of Derek Andrew's text from January 1992
and the work of Bryan Taylor in November 2002.





Book 32        Jonah

32:001:001 Now the word of the LORD came unto Jonah the son of Amittai,
           saying,

32:001:002 Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it; for
           their wickedness is come up before me.

32:001:003 But Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarshish from the presence of
           the LORD, and went down to Joppa; and he found a ship going to
           Tarshish: so he paid the fare thereof, and went down into it,
           to go with them unto Tarshish from the presence of the LORD.

32:001:004 But the LORD sent out a great wind into the sea, and there was
           a mighty tempest in the sea, so that the ship was like to be
           broken.

32:001:005 Then the mariners were afraid, and cried every man unto his
           god, and cast forth the wares that were in the ship into the
           sea, to lighten it of them. But Jonah was gone down into the
           sides of the ship; and he lay, and was fast asleep.

32:001:006 So the shipmaster came to him, and said unto him, What meanest
           thou, O sleeper? arise, call upon thy God, if so be that God
           will think upon us, that we perish not.

32:001:007 And they said every one to his fellow, Come, and let us cast
           lots, that we may know for whose cause this evil is upon us.
           So they cast lots, and the lot fell upon Jonah.

32:001:008 Then said they unto him, Tell us, we pray thee, for whose
           cause this evil is upon us; What is thine occupation? and
           whence comest thou? what is thy country? and of what people
           art thou?

32:001:009 And he said unto them, I am an Hebrew; and I fear the LORD,
           the God of heaven, which hath made the sea and the dry land.

32:001:010 Then were the men exceedingly afraid, and said unto him. Why
           hast thou done this? For the men knew that he fled from the
           presence of the LORD, because he had told them.

32:001:011 Then said they unto him, What shall we do unto thee, that the
           sea may be calm unto us? for the sea wrought, and was
           tempestuous.

32:001:012 And he said unto them, Take me up, and cast me forth into the
           sea; so shall the sea be calm unto you: for I know that for my
           sake this great tempest is upon you.

32:001:013 Nevertheless the men rowed hard to bring it to the land; but
           they could not: for the sea wrought, and was tempestuous
           against them.

32:001:014 Wherefore they cried unto the LORD, and said, We beseech thee,
           O LORD, we beseech thee, let us not perish for this man's
           life, and lay not upon us innocent blood: for thou, O LORD,
           hast done as it pleased thee.

32:001:015 So they took up Jonah, and cast him forth into the sea: and
           the sea ceased from her raging.

32:001:016 Then the men feared the LORD exceedingly, and offered a
           sacrifice unto the LORD, and made vows.

32:001:017 Now the LORD had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.
           And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three
           nights.

32:002:001 Then Jonah prayed unto the LORD his God out of the fish's
           belly,

32:002:002 And said, I cried by reason of mine affliction unto the LORD,
           and he heard me; out of the belly of hell cried I, and thou
           heardest my voice.

32:002:003 For thou hadst cast me into the deep, in the midst of the
           seas; and the floods compassed me about: all thy billows and
           thy waves passed over me.

32:002:004 Then I said, I am cast out of thy sight; yet I will look again
           toward thy holy temple.

32:002:005 The waters compassed me about, even to the soul: the depth
           closed me round about, the weeds were wrapped about my head.

32:002:006 I went down to the bottoms of the mountains; the earth with
           her bars was about me for ever: yet hast thou brought up my
           life from corruption, O LORD my God.

32:002:007 When my soul fainted within me I remembered the LORD: and my
           prayer came in unto thee, into thine holy temple.

32:002:008 They that observe lying vanities forsake their own mercy.

32:002:009 But I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving;
           I will pay that that I have vowed. Salvation is of the LORD.

32:002:010 And the LORD spake unto the fish, and it vomited out Jonah
           upon the dry land.

32:003:001 And the word of the LORD came unto Jonah the second time,
           saying,

32:003:002 Arise, go unto Nineveh, that great city, and preach unto it
           the preaching that I bid thee.

32:003:003 So Jonah arose, and went unto Nineveh, according to the word
           of the LORD. Now Nineveh was an exceeding great city of three
           days' journey.

32:003:004 And Jonah began to enter into the city a day's journey, and he
           cried, and said, Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be
           overthrown.

32:003:005 So the people of Nineveh believed God, and proclaimed a fast,
           and put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them even to the
           least of them.

32:003:006 For word came unto the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his
           throne, and he laid his robe from him, and covered him with
           sackcloth, and sat in ashes.

32:003:007 And he caused it to be proclaimed and published through
           Nineveh by the decree of the king and his nobles, saying, Let
           neither man nor beast, herd nor flock, taste any thing: let
           them not feed, nor drink water:

32:003:008 But let man and beast be covered with sackcloth, and cry
           mightily unto God: yea, let them turn every one from his evil
           way, and from the violence that is in their hands.

32:003:009 Who can tell if God will turn and repent, and turn away from
           his fierce anger, that we perish not?

32:003:010 And God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way;
           and God repented of the evil, that he had said that he would
           do unto them; and he did it not.

32:004:001 But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was very angry.

32:004:002 And he prayed unto the LORD, and said, I pray thee, O LORD,
           was not this my saying, when I was yet in my country?
           Therefore I fled before unto Tarshish: for I knew that thou
           art a gracious God, and merciful, slow to anger, and of great
           kindness, and repentest thee of the evil.

32:004:003 Therefore now, O LORD, take, I beseech thee, my life from me;
           for it is better for me to die than to live.

32:004:004 Then said the LORD, Doest thou well to be angry?

32:004:005 So Jonah went out of the city, and sat on the east side of the
           city, and there made him a booth, and sat under it in the
           shadow, till he might see what would become of the city.

32:004:006 And the LORD God prepared a gourd, and made it to come up over
           Jonah, that it might be a shadow over his head, to deliver him
           from his grief. So Jonah was exceeding glad of the gourd.

32:004:007 But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day,
           and it smote the gourd that it withered.

32:004:008 And it came to pass, when the sun did arise, that God prepared
           a vehement east wind; and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah,
           that he fainted, and wished in himself to die, and said, It is
           better for me to die than to live.

32:004:009 And God said to Jonah, Doest thou well to be angry for the
           gourd? And he said, I do well to be angry, even unto death.

32:004:010 Then said the LORD, Thou hast had pity on the gourd, for the
           which thou hast not laboured, neither madest it grow; which
           came up in a night, and perished in a night:

32:004:011 And should not I spare Nineveh, that great city, wherein are
           more then sixscore thousand persons that cannot discern
           between their right hand and their left hand; and also much
           cattle?







*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BIBLE, KING JAMES VERSION, BOOK 32: JONAH ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


