The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Bible, King James version, Book 51: Colossians
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Bible, King James version, Book 51: Colossians

Author: Anonymous

Release date: April 1, 2005 [eBook #8051]
                Most recently updated: December 26, 2020

Language: English

Credits: This eBook was produced by David Widger with the help of Derek Andrew's text from January 1992 and the work of Bryan Taylor in November 2002


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BIBLE, KING JAMES VERSION, BOOK 51: COLOSSIANS ***




This eBook was produced by David Widger
with the help of Derek Andrew's text from January 1992
and the work of Bryan Taylor in November 2002.





Book 51        Colossians

51:001:001 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and
           Timotheus our brother,

51:001:002 To the saints and faithful brethren in Christ which are at
           Colosse: Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father and
           the Lord Jesus Christ.

51:001:003 We give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
           praying always for you,

51:001:004 Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, and of the love
           which ye have to all the saints,

51:001:005 For the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, whereof ye
           heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel;

51:001:006 Which is come unto you, as it is in all the world; and
           bringeth forth fruit, as it doth also in you, since the day ye
           heard of it, and knew the grace of God in truth:

51:001:007 As ye also learned of Epaphras our dear fellowservant, who is
           for you a faithful minister of Christ;

51:001:008 Who also declared unto us your love in the Spirit.

51:001:009 For this cause we also, since the day we heard it, do not
           cease to pray for you, and to desire that ye might be filled
           with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual
           understanding;

51:001:010 That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being
           fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge
           of God;

51:001:011 Strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power,
           unto all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness;

51:001:012 Giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be
           partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light:

51:001:013 Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath
           translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son:

51:001:014 In whom we have redemption through his blood, even the
           forgiveness of sins:

51:001:015 Who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every
           creature:

51:001:016 For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and
           that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be
           thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: all
           things were created by him, and for him:

51:001:017 And he is before all things, and by him all things consist.

51:001:018 And he is the head of the body, the church: who is the
           beginning, the firstborn from the dead; that in all things he
           might have the preeminence.

51:001:019 For it pleased the Father that in him should all fulness
           dwell;

51:001:020 And, having made peace through the blood of his cross, by him
           to reconcile all things unto himself; by him, I say, whether
           they be things in earth, or things in heaven.

51:001:021 And you, that were sometime alienated and enemies in your mind
           by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled

51:001:022 In the body of his flesh through death, to present you holy
           and unblameable and unreproveable in his sight:

51:001:023 If ye continue in the faith grounded and settled, and be not
           moved away from the hope of the gospel, which ye have heard,
           and which was preached to every creature which is under
           heaven; whereof I Paul am made a minister;

51:001:024 Who now rejoice in my sufferings for you, and fill up that
           which is behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for
           his body's sake, which is the church:

51:001:025 Whereof I am made a minister, according to the dispensation of
           God which is given to me for you, to fulfil the word of God;

51:001:026 Even the mystery which hath been hid from ages and from
           generations, but now is made manifest to his saints:

51:001:027 To whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory
           of this mystery among the Gentiles; which is Christ in you,
           the hope of glory:

51:001:028 Whom we preach, warning every man, and teaching every man in
           all wisdom; that we may present every man perfect in Christ
           Jesus:

51:001:029 Whereunto I also labour, striving according to his working,
           which worketh in me mightily.

51:002:001 For I would that ye knew what great conflict I have for you,
           and for them at Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my
           face in the flesh;

51:002:002 That their hearts might be comforted, being knit together in
           love, and unto all riches of the full assurance of
           understanding, to the acknowledgement of the mystery of God,
           and of the Father, and of Christ;

51:002:003 In whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.

51:002:004 And this I say, lest any man should beguile you with enticing
           words.

51:002:005 For though I be absent in the flesh, yet am I with you in the
           spirit, joying and beholding your order, and the stedfastness
           of your faith in Christ.

51:002:006 As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk
           ye in him:

51:002:007 Rooted and built up in him, and stablished in the faith, as ye
           have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving.

51:002:008 Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain
           deceit, after the tradition of men, after the rudiments of the
           world, and not after Christ.

51:002:009 For in him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily.

51:002:010 And ye are complete in him, which is the head of all
           principality and power:

51:002:011 In whom also ye are circumcised with the circumcision made
           without hands, in putting off the body of the sins of the
           flesh by the circumcision of Christ:

51:002:012 Buried with him in baptism, wherein also ye are risen with him
           through the faith of the operation of God, who hath raised him
           from the dead.

51:002:013 And you, being dead in your sins and the uncircumcision of
           your flesh, hath he quickened together with him, having
           forgiven you all trespasses;

51:002:014 Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against
           us, which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way,
           nailing it to his cross;

51:002:015 And having spoiled principalities and powers, he made a shew
           of them openly, triumphing over them in it.

51:002:016 Let no man therefore judge you in meat, or in drink, or in
           respect of an holyday, or of the new moon, or of the sabbath
           days:

51:002:017 Which are a shadow of things to come; but the body is of
           Christ.

51:002:018 Let no man beguile you of your reward in a voluntary humility
           and worshipping of angels, intruding into those things which
           he hath not seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind,

51:002:019 And not holding the Head, from which all the body by joints
           and bands having nourishment ministered, and knit together,
           increaseth with the increase of God.

51:002:020 Wherefore if ye be dead with Christ from the rudiments of the
           world, why, as though living in the world, are ye subject to
           ordinances,

51:002:021 (Touch not; taste not; handle not;

51:002:022 Which all are to perish with the using;) after the
           commandments and doctrines of men?

51:002:023 Which things have indeed a shew of wisdom in will worship, and
           humility, and neglecting of the body: not in any honour to the
           satisfying of the flesh.

51:003:001 If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are
           above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God.

51:003:002 Set your affection on things above, not on things on the
           earth.

51:003:003 For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God.

51:003:004 When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also
           appear with him in glory.

51:003:005 Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth;
           fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil
           concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry:

51:003:006 For which things' sake the wrath of God cometh on the children
           of disobedience:

51:003:007 In the which ye also walked some time, when ye lived in them.

51:003:008 But now ye also put off all these; anger, wrath, malice,
           blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth.

51:003:009 Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old
           man with his deeds;

51:003:010 And have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge
           after the image of him that created him:

51:003:011 Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor
           uncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free: but Christ
           is all, and in all.

51:003:012 Put on therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved,
           bowels of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness,
           longsuffering;

51:003:013 Forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any man
           have a quarrel against any: even as Christ forgave you, so
           also do ye.

51:003:014 And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond
           of perfectness.

51:003:015 And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which
           also ye are called in one body; and be ye thankful.

51:003:016 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom;
           teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and
           spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the
           Lord.

51:003:017 And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of
           the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.

51:003:018 Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as it is fit
           in the Lord.

51:003:019 Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them.

51:003:020 Children, obey your parents in all things: for this is well
           pleasing unto the Lord.

51:003:021 Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be
           discouraged.

51:003:022 Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the
           flesh; not with eyeservice, as menpleasers; but in singleness
           of heart, fearing God;

51:003:023 And whatsoever ye do, do it heartily, as to the Lord, and not
           unto men;

51:003:024 Knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the
           inheritance: for ye serve the Lord Christ.

51:003:025 But he that doeth wrong shall receive for the wrong which he
           hath done: and there is no respect of persons.

51:004:001 Masters, give unto your servants that which is just and equal;
           knowing that ye also have a Master in heaven.

51:004:002 Continue in prayer, and watch in the same with thanksgiving;

51:004:003 Withal praying also for us, that God would open unto us a door
           of utterance, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am
           also in bonds:

51:004:004 That I may make it manifest, as I ought to speak.

51:004:005 Walk in wisdom toward them that are without, redeeming the
           time.

51:004:006 Let your speech be alway with grace, seasoned with salt, that
           ye may know how ye ought to answer every man.

51:004:007 All my state shall Tychicus declare unto you, who is a beloved
           brother, and a faithful minister and fellowservant in the
           Lord:

51:004:008 Whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose, that he might
           know your estate, and comfort your hearts;

51:004:009 With Onesimus, a faithful and beloved brother, who is one of
           you. They shall make known unto you all things which are done
           here.

51:004:010 Aristarchus my fellowprisoner saluteth you, and Marcus,
           sister's son to Barnabas, (touching whom ye received
           commandments: if he come unto you, receive him;)

51:004:011 And Jesus, which is called Justus, who are of the
           circumcision. These only are my fellowworkers unto the kingdom
           of God, which have been a comfort unto me.

51:004:012 Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, saluteth
           you, always labouring fervently for you in prayers, that ye
           may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God.

51:004:013 For I bear him record, that he hath a great zeal for you, and
           them that are in Laodicea, and them in Hierapolis.

51:004:014 Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas, greet you.

51:004:015 Salute the brethren which are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and
           the church which is in his house.

51:004:016 And when this epistle is read among you, cause that it be read
           also in the church of the Laodiceans; and that ye likewise
           read the epistle from Laodicea.

51:004:017 And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministry which thou
           hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfil it.

51:004:018 The salutation by the hand of me Paul. Remember my bonds.
           Grace be with you. Amen.







*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BIBLE, KING JAMES VERSION, BOOK 51: COLOSSIANS ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


