The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Bible, King James version, Book 54: 1 Timothy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Bible, King James version, Book 54: 1 Timothy

Author: Anonymous

Release date: April 1, 2005 [eBook #8054]
                Most recently updated: December 26, 2020

Language: English

Credits: This eBook was produced by David Widger with the help of Derek Andrew's text from January 1992 and the work of Bryan Taylor in November 2002


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BIBLE, KING JAMES VERSION, BOOK 54: 1 TIMOTHY ***




This eBook was produced by David Widger
with the help of Derek Andrew's text from January 1992
and the work of Bryan Taylor in November 2002.





Book 54        1 Timothy

54:001:001 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the commandment of God our
           Saviour, and Lord Jesus Christ, which is our hope;

54:001:002 Unto Timothy, my own son in the faith: Grace, mercy, and
           peace, from God our Father and Jesus Christ our Lord.

54:001:003 As I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus, when I went into
           Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some that they teach no
           other doctrine,

54:001:004 Neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies, which
           minister questions, rather than godly edifying which is in
           faith: so do.

54:001:005 Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart,
           and of a good conscience, and of faith unfeigned:

54:001:006 From which some having swerved have turned aside unto vain
           jangling;

54:001:007 Desiring to be teachers of the law; understanding neither what
           they say, nor whereof they affirm.

54:001:008 But we know that the law is good, if a man use it lawfully;

54:001:009 Knowing this, that the law is not made for a righteous man,
           but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and for
           sinners, for unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers and
           murderers of mothers, for manslayers,

54:001:010 For whoremongers, for them that defile themselves with
           mankind, for menstealers, for liars, for perjured persons, and
           if there be any other thing that is contrary to sound
           doctrine;

54:001:011 According to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which was
           committed to my trust.

54:001:012 And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who hath enabled me, for
           that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry;

54:001:013 Who was before a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and injurious:
           but I obtained mercy, because I did it ignorantly in unbelief.

54:001:014 And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith
           and love which is in Christ Jesus.

54:001:015 This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that
           Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners; of whom I am
           chief.

54:001:016 Howbeit for this cause I obtained mercy, that in me first
           Jesus Christ might shew forth all longsuffering, for a pattern
           to them which should hereafter believe on him to life
           everlasting.

54:001:017 Now unto the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise
           God, be honour and glory for ever and ever. Amen.

54:001:018 This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to the
           prophecies which went before on thee, that thou by them
           mightest war a good warfare;

54:001:019 Holding faith, and a good conscience; which some having put
           away concerning faith have made shipwreck:

54:001:020 Of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander; whom I have delivered unto
           Satan, that they may learn not to blaspheme.

54:002:001 I exhort therefore, that, first of all, supplications,
           prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks, be made for all
           men;

54:002:002 For kings, and for all that are in authority; that we may lead
           a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty.

54:002:003 For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our
           Saviour;

54:002:004 Who will have all men to be saved, and to come unto the
           knowledge of the truth.

54:002:005 For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men,
           the man Christ Jesus;

54:002:006 Who gave himself a ransom for all, to be testified in due
           time.

54:002:007 Whereunto I am ordained a preacher, and an apostle, (I speak
           the truth in Christ, and lie not;) a teacher of the Gentiles
           in faith and verity.

54:002:008 I will therefore that men pray every where, lifting up holy
           hands, without wrath and doubting.

54:002:009 In like manner also, that women adorn themselves in modest
           apparel, with shamefacedness and sobriety; not with broided
           hair, or gold, or pearls, or costly array;

54:002:010 But (which becometh women professing godliness) with good
           works.

54:002:011 Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection.

54:002:012 But I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over
           the man, but to be in silence.

54:002:013 For Adam was first formed, then Eve.

54:002:014 And Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in
           the transgression.

54:002:015 Notwithstanding she shall be saved in childbearing, if they
           continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriety.

54:003:001 This is a true saying, If a man desire the office of a bishop,
           he desireth a good work.

54:003:002 A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife,
           vigilant, sober, of good behaviour, given to hospitality, apt
           to teach;

54:003:003 Not given to wine, no striker, not greedy of filthy lucre; but
           patient, not a brawler, not covetous;

54:003:004 One that ruleth well his own house, having his children in
           subjection with all gravity;

54:003:005 (For if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he
           take care of the church of God?)

54:003:006 Not a novice, lest being lifted up with pride he fall into the
           condemnation of the devil.

54:003:007 Moreover he must have a good report of them which are without;
           lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil.

54:003:008 Likewise must the deacons be grave, not doubletongued, not
           given to much wine, not greedy of filthy lucre;

54:003:009 Holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience.

54:003:010 And let these also first be proved; then let them use the
           office of a deacon, being found blameless.

54:003:011 Even so must their wives be grave, not slanderers, sober,
           faithful in all things.

54:003:012 Let the deacons be the husbands of one wife, ruling their
           children and their own houses well.

54:003:013 For they that have used the office of a deacon well purchase
           to themselves a good degree, and great boldness in the faith
           which is in Christ Jesus.

54:003:014 These things write I unto thee, hoping to come unto thee
           shortly:

54:003:015 But if I tarry long, that thou mayest know how thou oughtest
           to behave thyself in the house of God, which is the church of
           the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth.

54:003:016 And without controversy great is the mystery of godliness: God
           was manifest in the flesh, justified in the Spirit, seen of
           angels, preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world,
           received up into glory.

54:004:001 Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times
           some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing
           spirits, and doctrines of devils;

54:004:002 Speaking lies in hypocrisy; having their conscience seared
           with a hot iron;

54:004:003 Forbidding to marry, and commanding to abstain from meats,
           which God hath created to be received with thanksgiving of
           them which believe and know the truth.

54:004:004 For every creature of God is good, and nothing to be refused,
           if it be received with thanksgiving:

54:004:005 For it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer.

54:004:006 If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou
           shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished up in the
           words of faith and of good doctrine, whereunto thou hast
           attained.

54:004:007 But refuse profane and old wives' fables, and exercise thyself
           rather unto godliness.

54:004:008 For bodily exercise profiteth little: but godliness is
           profitable unto all things, having promise of the life that
           now is, and of that which is to come.

54:004:009 This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation.

54:004:010 For therefore we both labour and suffer reproach, because we
           trust in the living God, who is the Saviour of all men,
           specially of those that believe.

54:004:011 These things command and teach.

54:004:012 Let no man despise thy youth; but be thou an example of the
           believers, in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in
           faith, in purity.

54:004:013 Till I come, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to
           doctrine.

54:004:014 Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by
           prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery.

54:004:015 Meditate upon these things; give thyself wholly to them; that
           thy profiting may appear to all.

54:004:016 Take heed unto thyself, and unto the doctrine; continue in
           them: for in doing this thou shalt both save thyself, and them
           that hear thee.

54:005:001 Rebuke not an elder, but intreat him as a father; and the
           younger men as brethren;

54:005:002 The elder women as mothers; the younger as sisters, with all
           purity.

54:005:003 Honour widows that are widows indeed.

54:005:004 But if any widow have children or nephews, let them learn
           first to shew piety at home, and to requite their parents: for
           that is good and acceptable before God.

54:005:005 Now she that is a widow indeed, and desolate, trusteth in God,
           and continueth in supplications and prayers night and day.

54:005:006 But she that liveth in pleasure is dead while she liveth.

54:005:007 And these things give in charge, that they may be blameless.

54:005:008 But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of
           his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an
           infidel.

54:005:009 Let not a widow be taken into the number under threescore
           years old, having been the wife of one man.

54:005:010 Well reported of for good works; if she have brought up
           children, if she have lodged strangers, if she have washed the
           saints' feet, if she have relieved the afflicted, if she have
           diligently followed every good work.

54:005:011 But the younger widows refuse: for when they have begun to wax
           wanton against Christ, they will marry;

54:005:012 Having damnation, because they have cast off their first
           faith.

54:005:013 And withal they learn to be idle, wandering about from house
           to house; and not only idle, but tattlers also and busybodies,
           speaking things which they ought not.

54:005:014 I will therefore that the younger women marry, bear children,
           guide the house, give none occasion to the adversary to speak
           reproachfully.

54:005:015 For some are already turned aside after Satan.

54:005:016 If any man or woman that believeth have widows, let them
           relieve them, and let not the church be charged; that it may
           relieve them that are widows indeed.

54:005:017 Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double
           honour, especially they who labour in the word and doctrine.

54:005:018 For the scripture saith, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that
           treadeth out the corn. And, The labourer is worthy of his
           reward.

54:005:019 Against an elder receive not an accusation, but before two or
           three witnesses.

54:005:020 Them that sin rebuke before all, that others also may fear.

54:005:021 I charge thee before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, and the
           elect angels, that thou observe these things without
           preferring one before another, doing nothing by partiality.

54:005:022 Lay hands suddenly on no man, neither be partaker of other
           men's sins: keep thyself pure.

54:005:023 Drink no longer water, but use a little wine for thy stomach's
           sake and thine often infirmities.

54:005:024 Some men's sins are open beforehand, going before to judgment;
           and some men they follow after.

54:005:025 Likewise also the good works of some are manifest beforehand;
           and they that are otherwise cannot be hid.

54:006:001 Let as many servants as are under the yoke count their own
           masters worthy of all honour, that the name of God and his
           doctrine be not blasphemed.

54:006:002 And they that have believing masters, let them not despise
           them, because they are brethren; but rather do them service,
           because they are faithful and beloved, partakers of the
           benefit. These things teach and exhort.

54:006:003 If any man teach otherwise, and consent not to wholesome
           words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the
           doctrine which is according to godliness;

54:006:004 He is proud, knowing nothing, but doting about questions and
           strifes of words, whereof cometh envy, strife, railings, evil
           surmisings,

54:006:005 Perverse disputings of men of corrupt minds, and destitute of
           the truth, supposing that gain is godliness: from such
           withdraw thyself.

54:006:006 But godliness with contentment is great gain.

54:006:007 For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we
           can carry nothing out.

54:006:008 And having food and raiment let us be therewith content.

54:006:009 But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare,
           and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in
           destruction and perdition.

54:006:010 For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while
           some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and
           pierced themselves through with many sorrows.

54:006:011 But thou, O man of God, flee these things; and follow after
           righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness.

54:006:012 Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life,
           whereunto thou art also called, and hast professed a good
           profession before many witnesses.

54:006:013 I give thee charge in the sight of God, who quickeneth all
           things, and before Christ Jesus, who before Pontius Pilate
           witnessed a good confession;

54:006:014 That thou keep this commandment without spot, unrebukable,
           until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ:

54:006:015 Which in his times he shall shew, who is the blessed and only
           Potentate, the King of kings, and Lord of lords;

54:006:016 Who only hath immortality, dwelling in the light which no man
           can approach unto; whom no man hath seen, nor can see: to whom
           be honour and power everlasting. Amen.

54:006:017 Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not
           highminded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living
           God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy;

54:006:018 That they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to
           distribute, willing to communicate;

54:006:019 Laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against
           the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life.

54:006:020 O Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust, avoiding
           profane and vain babblings, and oppositions of science falsely
           so called:

54:006:021 Which some professing have erred concerning the faith. Grace
           be with thee. Amen.







*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BIBLE, KING JAMES VERSION, BOOK 54: 1 TIMOTHY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


