The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Bible, King James version, Book 55: 2 Timothy
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Bible, King James version, Book 55: 2 Timothy

Author: Anonymous

Release date: April 1, 2005 [eBook #8055]
                Most recently updated: December 26, 2020

Language: English

Credits: This eBook was produced by David Widger with the help of Derek Andrew's text from January 1992 and the work of Bryan Taylor in November 2002


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BIBLE, KING JAMES VERSION, BOOK 55: 2 TIMOTHY ***




This eBook was produced by David Widger
with the help of Derek Andrew's text from January 1992
and the work of Bryan Taylor in November 2002.





Book 55        2 Timothy

55:001:001 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according
           to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus,

55:001:002 To Timothy, my dearly beloved son: Grace, mercy, and peace,
           from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.

55:001:003 I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers with pure
           conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in
           my prayers night and day;

55:001:004 Greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that
           I may be filled with joy;

55:001:005 When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in
           thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy
           mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that in thee also.

55:001:006 Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift
           of God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands.

55:001:007 For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power,
           and of love, and of a sound mind.

55:001:008 Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord,
           nor of me his prisoner: but be thou partaker of the
           afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God;

55:001:009 Who hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling, not
           according to our works, but according to his own purpose and
           grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world
           began,

55:001:010 But is now made manifest by the appearing of our Saviour Jesus
           Christ, who hath abolished death, and hath brought life and
           immortality to light through the gospel:

55:001:011 Whereunto I am appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a
           teacher of the Gentiles.

55:001:012 For the which cause I also suffer these things: nevertheless I
           am not ashamed: for I know whom I have believed, and am
           persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed
           unto him against that day.

55:001:013 Hold fast the form of sound words, which thou hast heard of
           me, in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.

55:001:014 That good thing which was committed unto thee keep by the Holy
           Ghost which dwelleth in us.

55:001:015 This thou knowest, that all they which are in Asia be turned
           away from me; of whom are Phygellus and Hermogenes.

55:001:016 The Lord give mercy unto the house of Onesiphorus; for he oft
           refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain:

55:001:017 But, when he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently,
           and found me.

55:001:018 The Lord grant unto him that he may find mercy of the Lord in
           that day: and in how many things he ministered unto me at
           Ephesus, thou knowest very well.

55:002:001 Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in
           Christ Jesus.

55:002:002 And the things that thou hast heard of me among many
           witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be
           able to teach others also.

55:002:003 Thou therefore endure hardness, as a good soldier of Jesus
           Christ.

55:002:004 No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of
           this life; that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a
           soldier.

55:002:005 And if a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned,
           except he strive lawfully.

55:002:006 The husbandman that laboureth must be first partaker of the
           fruits.

55:002:007 Consider what I say; and the Lord give thee understanding in
           all things.

55:002:008 Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised
           from the dead according to my gospel:

55:002:009 Wherein I suffer trouble, as an evil doer, even unto bonds;
           but the word of God is not bound.

55:002:010 Therefore I endure all things for the elect's sakes, that they
           may also obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with
           eternal glory.

55:002:011 It is a faithful saying: For if we be dead with him, we shall
           also live with him:

55:002:012 If we suffer, we shall also reign with him: if we deny him, he
           also will deny us:

55:002:013 If we believe not, yet he abideth faithful: he cannot deny
           himself.

55:002:014 Of these things put them in remembrance, charging them before
           the Lord that they strive not about words to no profit, but to
           the subverting of the hearers.

55:002:015 Study to shew thyself approved unto God, a workman that
           needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.

55:002:016 But shun profane and vain babblings: for they will increase
           unto more ungodliness.

55:002:017 And their word will eat as doth a canker: of whom is Hymenaeus
           and Philetus;

55:002:018 Who concerning the truth have erred, saying that the
           resurrection is past already; and overthrow the faith of some.

55:002:019 Nevertheless the foundation of God standeth sure, having this
           seal, The Lord knoweth them that are his. And, Let every one
           that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity.

55:002:020 But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of
           silver, but also of wood and of earth; and some to honour, and
           some to dishonour.

55:002:021 If a man therefore purge himself from these, he shall be a
           vessel unto honour, sanctified, and meet for the master's use,
           and prepared unto every good work.

55:002:022 Flee also youthful lusts: but follow righteousness, faith,
           charity, peace, with them that call on the Lord out of a pure
           heart.

55:002:023 But foolish and unlearned questions avoid, knowing that they
           do gender strifes.

55:002:024 And the servant of the Lord must not strive; but be gentle
           unto all men, apt to teach, patient,

55:002:025 In meekness instructing those that oppose themselves; if God
           peradventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of
           the truth;

55:002:026 And that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the
           devil, who are taken captive by him at his will.

55:003:001 This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall
           come.

55:003:002 For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous,
           boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents,
           unthankful, unholy,

55:003:003 Without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers,
           incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good,

55:003:004 Traitors, heady, highminded, lovers of pleasures more than
           lovers of God;

55:003:005 Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof:
           from such turn away.

55:003:006 For of this sort are they which creep into houses, and lead
           captive silly women laden with sins, led away with divers
           lusts,

55:003:007 Ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the
           truth.

55:003:008 Now as Jannes and Jambres withstood Moses, so do these also
           resist the truth: men of corrupt minds, reprobate concerning
           the faith.

55:003:009 But they shall proceed no further: for their folly shall be
           manifest unto all men, as their's also was.

55:003:010 But thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life,
           purpose, faith, longsuffering, charity, patience,

55:003:011 Persecutions, afflictions, which came unto me at Antioch, at
           Iconium, at Lystra; what persecutions I endured: but out of
           them all the Lord delivered me.

55:003:012 Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer
           persecution.

55:003:013 But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse,
           deceiving, and being deceived.

55:003:014 But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and
           hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them;

55:003:015 And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures,
           which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith
           which is in Christ Jesus.

55:003:016 All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is
           profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for
           instruction in righteousness:

55:003:017 That the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto
           all good works.

55:004:001 I charge thee therefore before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ,
           who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and
           his kingdom;

55:004:002 Preach the word; be instant in season, out of season; reprove,
           rebuke, exhort with all longsuffering and doctrine.

55:004:003 For the time will come when they will not endure sound
           doctrine; but after their own lusts shall they heap to
           themselves teachers, having itching ears;

55:004:004 And they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall
           be turned unto fables.

55:004:005 But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the work
           of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry.

55:004:006 For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure
           is at hand.

55:004:007 I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have
           kept the faith:

55:004:008 Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness,
           which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that
           day: and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his
           appearing.

55:004:009 Do thy diligence to come shortly unto me:

55:004:010 For Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world,
           and is departed unto Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, Titus
           unto Dalmatia.

55:004:011 Only Luke is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with thee: for
           he is profitable to me for the ministry.

55:004:012 And Tychicus have I sent to Ephesus.

55:004:013 The cloke that I left at Troas with Carpus, when thou comest,
           bring with thee, and the books, but especially the parchments.

55:004:014 Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil: the Lord reward
           him according to his works:

55:004:015 Of whom be thou ware also; for he hath greatly withstood our
           words.

55:004:016 At my first answer no man stood with me, but all men forsook
           me: I pray God that it may not be laid to their charge.

55:004:017 Notwithstanding the Lord stood with me, and strengthened me;
           that by me the preaching might be fully known, and that all
           the Gentiles might hear: and I was delivered out of the mouth
           of the lion.

55:004:018 And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work, and will
           preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom: to whom be glory for
           ever and ever. Amen.

55:004:019 Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus.

55:004:020 Erastus abode at Corinth: but Trophimus have I left at Miletum
           sick.

55:004:021 Do thy diligence to come before winter. Eubulus greeteth thee,
           and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren.

55:004:022 The Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit. Grace be with you.
           Amen.







*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BIBLE, KING JAMES VERSION, BOOK 55: 2 TIMOTHY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


