You will remember, sir, That when a pupil at the Bluecoat School, Poor, lonely, friendless, with a thirst for lore, I came to ask of you the loan of books, You mocked my poverty, jeered at my verse, And sneering bade me learn the cobbler's trade. I knew your passion was for gold and birth; And gold you had. In bitter sport I wrote your pedigree, scarce thinking it Would be received with credence; yet it was. I should have told you then, but you did swell And treat me with disdain. I tell you now That, since you are the father of this girl, I'd give my life to undo what is done; Yet, were you not her father, I do swear I'd give my life to do it o'er again. I made a fool of gold, for it had made A fool of me so long. Burgum. The whole is false: My ancestor was not of Norman blood, And John de Bergham never lived at all. Chatterton. He habited a world within a world-- This globe of fancy, where strange creatures live, And all the business of existence moves Unrecked of, as though on some distant orb.-- Thank heaven! that, being a poet, he dwelt not here. Burgum. [Despairingly.] What shall I do? Bertha. [To Chatterton.] Can nothing be contrived By which my father may derision 'scape? Chatterton. [To Burgum, after a thoughtful pause.] You are not known in London; what is done Will ne'er to Bristol come: you can give out, Anent the pedigree, 'twas all your joke. Play your cards slowly, and with that same tact With which you bargain for your tin and lead; And, sir, the game is yours. Burgum. [Chuckling.] To turn the laugh Upon the laughers--good--that is the trick. Come, daughter, come. Mrs. Angell. 'Tis dark: I'll go before. [Exit Mrs. Angell followed by Burgum.] Bertha. Good-by. Chatterton. O lady, when I said good-by To my dear mother on the cloudy night I took the coach for London, I did feel As though that word were fully charged with grief; But 'twas not so. Bertha. O, sir, do not despair; And should we never meet again, believe My thoughts will ever wander back to you. Chatterton. We shall not meet again. Burgum. [Calling from without.] Come, Bertha. Bertha. [To Burgum.] Yes! [To Chatterton.] Why so? Chatterton. If Barrett recommend me strong, I sail for Africa as surgeon's mate. Bertha. Indeed!--but then you will return. Chatterton. Perhaps. Bertha. I will not say good-by--good-night. Chatterton. [Kissing her hand.] Farewell. [Chatterton sinks upon chair, his elbows resting on table, his face upon his hands. Bertha pauses at doorway, looks back pityingly, and then goes out.] Chatterton. [Raising his head.] Alone, again alone, yet more alone Than e'er I was before. [After a pause.] The hope is vain. O there is consolation in the thought That though a puppet in the hands of fate A man is born and lives--made now a king, And now, the sport for mocking enemies, He has the power when evils hedge him round, And joy and love and hope have fled for aye, To laugh! ring down the drop, and end the play. Enter Mrs. Angell. Mrs. Angell. Here is a letter, sir, that came to-day. [Hands letter to Chatterton.] Chatterton. [To himself.] This is in Barrett's hand: it seals my doom. [Opens letter and reads to himself.] I cannot recommend you for the place Of surgeon's mate--you know too little physic. [Tears up letter and throws pieces on floor.] Mrs. Angell. Bad news? Chatterton. Good news--a warrant for my death. Mrs. Angell. How pale you look! but I have that will bring The color to your cheek. The lady begs That you accept this as a loan. [Gives a purse to Chatterton.] Chatterton. She's kind. Heaven grant her happiness. [Throwing up purse.] This yellow god Distributes favors with a curious hand. The kings of his creation are so low Of forehead that their crowns sit on their eyebrows. They have, for motley fools, wise men--so called (Not wise enough to live within their age), Who feed upon the bones their masters throw Beneath the table. 'Tis the voice of fate, Exclusion's cruel law, that he who carries In the clouds his head shall stumble on the earth. Here, take the trash--I am no pauper yet. [Gives purse to her.] Mrs. Angell. [Aside.] The boy is surely crazed. Chatterton. There, go at once. I cannot, with these artificial words, Show the brain busy, and keep out the thoughts That knock to be admitted. No more--go! Mrs. Angell. [With emotion.] I meant not to offend. Chatterton. I am too rude. I needs must take a tenderer farewell. Mrs. Angell. Farewell? Why how you talk! You will not leave? Chatterton. I may, perhaps. Mrs. Angell. Where are you going, sir? Chatterton. To sea; but vex me not at present, please; And, should my mother come to you, tell her How hard I worked; but 'twas of no use--no use. Good-by, dear Mrs. Angell. [Kisses her.] Mrs. Angell. I'll leave the lamp. Chatterton. No: take it--'tis too brilliant. [Lights candle and hands lamp to her.] Mrs. Angell. You will feel Much better in the morning. Chatterton. Pray I may. Mrs. Angell. [Aside.] I'll ask my husband what is best to do. [Exit Mrs. Angell with lamp. Lights lowered.] Chatterton. And should I reach ambition's goal at last-- My brain would not hold out.