Accordingly, as they had fallen into the practice of dismissing their wives for many frivolous reasons, and often in momentary displeasure, of which they afterwards relented, and sought them again, Moses required that _when_ they did so dismiss their wives, they should do it deliberately, and in a formal way, writing a bill of divorcement; and with the understanding, probably as a check upon precipitancy, that no after repentance should render them able to claim their wives again, if they had availed themselves of their supposed liberty, and taken other husbands. So much of sanction and regulation of unlawful courses did Moses condescend to. But it may be objected: “Moses was God’s deputy, what he sanctioned God therefore must have approved.” Now, truly, we do not suppose that Moses acted without Divine permission; _but such permission did not amount to approval_. Suppose you that God approved of the ignorance of the heathen, because we are told He “winked at it?” Was wicked Balaam’s forbidden journey approved by God, because He directed what should be said and done on it? Was the lawless divorce between the king Jehovah and His kingdom Israel, and the re-marriage of that kingdom with an earthly king, divinely approved, because regulations for the management of that adulterous kingdom were vouchsafed by God? No, brethren; God simply made the best of the evil. He set bounds to it, and so diminished it; in a measure condescending to human infirmities, and effecting through them His good and wise purposes. Thus He has ever done and still does: but not in the case of separation of man and wife for re-marriage; all sanction, all toleration of this breach of His commandment He has withdrawn for ever. “I say unto you” (they are Christ’s words) “whosoever shall put away his wife, except it be for fornication, and shall marry another, committeth adultery; and whoso marrieth her which is put away, doth commit adultery.” But here it is objected: “This is granting the whole matter in dispute—‘Except it be for fornication.’ This is all that is proposed to the Legislature now: the putting away of an unfaithful wife, and (the vows between them being thus loosed) the removal of obstacles to a fresh marriage or marriages.” Now, I confess, brethren, that the full explanation of this apparent exception is what I cannot offer within the space of time allowed me this morning. Neither can it be given at all to those who will not bestow on it close and somewhat learned attention. I am satisfied in my own mind (and I believe I could satisfy any one who will study the passage with me), that this is no real exception to the general prohibition. But I can show you all, in few words, how little its ordinary interpretation is to be relied on. It is mentioned twice, {10} once in the hearing of the multitude, once to the Pharisees. It is found only in the Gospel of St. Matthew, written for Jewish converts. It does not occur in the Gospel of St. Mark, or in that of St. Luke, written for the Gentiles, in both of which the prohibition of putting away is absolute and without exception, and it is never once alluded to in any other part of the New Testament. Not even in the Epistles to the Corinthians, among whom the sin in question was a very common one, and to whom St. Paul gives full directions about the married state, is there the remotest hint of such a separation being lawful, _though the verse of the Gospel in which it occurs is actually referred to in the seventh chapter of the_ 1_st_ _Epistle_, (vv. 10, 11). “And unto the married I command, yet not I, but the Lord (‘Matthew xix, 6, 9,’ says the marginal reference), Let not the wife depart from her husband: but if she depart, let her remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband; and let not the husband put away his wife.” Now, when we remember that all Holy Scripture was dictated by the same Spirit; that that Spirit brought to the remembrance of the Sacred Writers, or taught them all that Christ did and said, and suggested to them all that they should write; that all the sacred writings were not _at once_ put into the hands of each Christian disciple, but that in most cases probably only a single gospel and an epistle or two were to be found in any one church, what inference are we compelled to draw from this exception being mentioned only in the Gospel written _first_, and written for _Jews_; but that it was a parenthetical recognition of the Jewish criminal law, which put the adulterer and adulteress to death? As though Christ had begun to declare His decree, that marriage should in no case be dissolved, and then stopped short to announce in a parenthesis, that He meant not, at least in _their_ case, at _that_ time, to interfere with the husband’s right to deliver up a faithless wife to the officers of justice, to be dealt with by the law.