“Whether we consider the history of nations, or the private life of individuals, the moral efficacy and salutary power of the holy books glowingly manifest themselves. Undoubtedly, even among nations where it is assiduous and general, the reading of the holy books has not the effect of stifling the bad passions of men; it does not obviate all errors and faults. Man remains full of weakness and vice, even when conscious of the presence of God. But the habitual reading of the holy books preserves nations from the greatest perils; it prevents them from forgetting God. It has this advantage—that God remains for them, not an idea, a name, a system of philosophy, a riddle, but the true and living God, under whose eye they constantly live, amid the struggles and casualties of this world.” * * * * * * * * * * Reed and Pardon, Printers, Paternoster Row, London. FOOTNOTES. {3} A solitary voice, in the strict sense of the word, was raised by the Rev. Canon Selwyn at the last meeting of Convocation (March, 1856). The motion was not suited to the _mollia tempora fandi_, perhaps. But, whatever the cause, there can be no doubt of the fitness of the hands into which the motion fell, or that the day is far from being distant when the question will force itself on the notice of Convocation, in all probability, in another shape. {4} “Essays, Moral and Literary,” by Dr. Vicesimus Knox. No. XLIX. {8a} See Psalm xxii. throughout. The difficulties attending the _entire_ application of the psalm to Christ are by no means insuperable. Scott unreservedly refers the whole to Christ. Adam Clarke dissents. Psalm lxix. is for the most part a manifest adumbration of the Messiah; and if the difficulties in the way of the entire application of the Psalm to Christ, presented in verse 5, where he is made _apparently_ to lament his foolishness and his guilt, could be surmounted, a great boon, it is conceived, would be granted to all who desire to understand what they read. The _representative_ scheme, besides being open to other objections, has no explicit authority in the Scriptures to recommend it, and the _double sense_ is now all but universally abandoned. Possibly, if the text will not yield in these cases, there are principles of interpretation involved that await future development. {8b} Gen. xlix. 21. For, “Naphtali is a hind let loose: he giveth goodly words,” read, “Naphtali is a spreading Pine, that putteth forth goodly boughs.” Psa. xxix. 9. For, “The voice of the Lord maketh the hinds to calve, and discovereth the forests,” read, “The voice of the Lord rendeth the pines, and layeth bare the forests.” So Dr. Lee. To surrender the Bible, body and soul, into the hands of the Massorites, as is required by their pointing of these passages, is surely asking too much. Let the reader peruse the _whole_ of the 29th Psalm, and determine the fitness of the correction for himself, which he may very safely be allowed to do. The former passage, if consistently carried out on the principles of the translators, would run, “Naphtali is a hind let loose, _that_ giveth goodly words,” in which the incongruousness of the metaphor would, if possible, be still more manifest. See Stanley’s “Syria and Palestine,” p. 355. {10a} See Preface to Herwitz’ “Etymology and Syntax of the Hebrew Language.” {10b} See Kitto’s Bib. Cyc., art. Chronicles. The whole article is very reassuring, considering the able and accomplished pen from which it proceeds. The writer, Dr. Davidson, to whom the lovers of Biblical philology are under the greatest obligations, deliberately asserts the corruption of the passages in question, and advocates a reading in conformity with the corresponding statements in 2 Samuel and Kings. {11a} Compare, among other instances in point that might be given, 1 Kings ix. 28 with 2 Chron. viii. 18. {11b} If _no_ purification of the text should avail us in these cases, it would be advisable to accompany the change in the text with a note in the margin explanatory of the corruptness of the reading that has been superseded. {13} The change of accent the word undergoes in the original when repeated in the second hemistich, gives marvellous emphasis to the exhortation—an emphasis altogether lost in the translation. {14} The application of this principle may go some way towards neutralizing the doubts that have been raised as to the identity of the Isaiah of the later portion of the prophecy with the Isaiah of the earlier portion. See chap. lxiv. 10, 11. One thing at least is evident, namely, that the Apostle Paul, who was confessedly well read in Hebrew literature, in his quotations from the latter portion of the prophecy, seems to have had no notion of any other Isaiah than that to whom the whole prophecy is ordinarily ascribed. See Rom. x. 16. In fact, these doubts, now complacently acquiesced in as valid by the Rationalistic School abroad and at home, were equally unknown to all the world till about half a century ago. The general reader may content himself with Dr.