“How white with frost her yards are on the fore.” One of the men about me answer made, “That is not frost, but all her sails are tore, “Torn into tatters, youngster, in the gale; Her best foul-weather suit gone.” It was true, Her masts were white with rags of tattered sail Many as gannets when the fish are due. Beauty in desolation was her pride, Her crowned array a glory that had been; She faltered tow’rds us like a swan that died, But although ruined she was still a queen. “Put back with all her sails gone,” went the word; Then, from her signals flying, rumour ran, “The sea that stove her boats in killed her third; She has been gutted and has lost a man.” So, as though stepping to a funeral march, She passed defeated homewards whence she came, Ragged with tattered canvas white as starch, A wild bird that misfortune had made tame. She was refitted soon: another took The dead man’s office; then the singers hove Her capstan till the snapping hawsers shook; Out, with a bubble at her bows, she drove. Again they towed her seawards, and again We, watching, praised her beauty, praised her trim, Saw her fair house-flag flutter at the main, And slowly saunter seawards, dwindling dim; And wished her well, and wondered, as she died, How, when her canvas had been sheeted home, Her quivering length would sweep into her stride, Making the greenness milky with her foam. But when we rose next morning, we discerned Her beauty once again a shattered thing; Towing to dock the _Wanderer_ returned, A wounded sea-bird with a broken wing. A spar was gone, her rigging’s disarray Told of a worst disaster than the last; Like draggled hair dishevelled hung the stay, Drooping and beating on the broken mast. Half-mast upon her flagstaff hung her flag; Word went among us how the broken spar Had gored her captain like an angry stag, And killed her mate a half-day from the bar. She passed to dock upon the top of flood. An old man near me shook his head and swore: “Like a bad woman, she has tasted blood-- There’ll be no trusting in her any more.” We thought it truth, and when we saw her there Lying in dock, beyond, across the stream, We would forget that we had called her fair, We thought her murderess and the past a dream. And when she sailed again, we watched in awe, Wondering what bloody act her beauty planned, What evil lurked behind the thing we saw, What strength was there that thus annulled man’s hand, How next its triumph would compel man’s will Into compliance with external Fate, How next the powers would use her to work ill On suffering men; we had not long to wait. For soon the outcry of derision rose, “Here comes the _Wanderer_!” the expected cry. Guessing the cause, our mockings joined with those Yelled from the shipping as they towed her by. She passed us close, her seamen paid no heed To what was called: they stood, a sullen group, Smoking and spitting, careless of her need, Mocking the orders given from the poop. Her mates and boys were working her; we stared. What was the reason of this strange return, This third annulling of the thing prepared? No outward evil could our eyes discern. Only like someone who has formed a plan Beyond the pitch of common minds, she sailed, Mocked and deserted by the common man, Made half divine to me for having failed. We learned the reason soon; below the town A stay had parted like a snapping reed, “Warning,” the men thought, “not to take her down.” They took the omen, they would not proceed. Days passed before another crew would sign. The _Wanderer_ lay in dock alone, unmanned, Feared as a thing possessed by powers malign, Bound under curses not to leave the land. But under passing Time fear passes too; That terror passed, the sailors’ hearts grew bold. We learned in time that she had found a crew And was bound out and southwards as of old. And in contempt we thought, “A little while Will bring her back again, dismantled, spoiled. It is herself; she cannot change her style; She has the habit now of being foiled.” So when a ship appeared among the haze, We thought, “The _Wanderer_ back again”; but no, No _Wanderer_ showed for many, many days, Her passing lights made other waters glow. But we would often think and talk of her, Tell newer hands her story, wondering, then, Upon what ocean she was _Wanderer_, Bound to the cities built by foreign men. And one by one our little conclave thinned, Passed into ships and sailed and so away, To drown in some great roaring of the wind, Wanderers themselves, unhappy fortune’s prey. And Time went by me making memory dim, Yet still I wondered if the _Wanderer_ fared Still pointing to the unreached ocean’s rim, Brightening the water where her breast was bared. And much in ports abroad I eyed the ships, Hoping to see her well-remembered form Come with a curl of bubbles at her lips Bright to her berth, the sovereign of the storm.