A week or so after a swarm has left the old stock is perhaps the very best time for such a removal. Should the operation be performed in the open air, the bees from surrounding hives will be sure to come in great numbers to obtain a share of the honey necessarily exposed, for they delight in plunder. In order, therefore, to avoid annoyance to the operator, and the excitement which is certain to be induced in surrounding hives, it is better to conduct the dissection in some building with closed doors. In some instances a routing of this kind has a beneficial effect; old stocks of hives that have previously appeared to be dwindling, are often aroused to activity by their removal into a fresh domicile. WEIGHING HIVES, &c. One of the most effectual modes of ascertaining the condition of a hive is by weighing it. Such knowledge is most important at the close of the gathering season, in order that the bee-keeper may determine whether he ought to give his bees artificial food to enable them to live through the dreary winter. A knowledge of the numerical strength of the colony is also useful, in enabling the bee-keeper to decide which hives will be benefited by being joined together, which may be done on the plan explained in the articles on "Fumigation" and "Driving." A hive can very easily be weighed, if a Salter's Spring Balance be suspended near the apiary. The hive, having a strap or cord passed under and over it, and crossing at right angles on the top, may be hooked on to the balance, so that the weight will be indicated on the dial. The weight of the hive should be marked on it when empty, so that the exact amount of its contents may at any time be ascertained. A colony of bees at Michaelmas ought to weigh from 20 to 24 pounds, that is, exclusive of the hive; if falling short of that weight, the hive should be made up to it by the artificial means before recommended. Experienced apiarians are able to judge of the weight of a hive by lifting it a few inches from the stand; or by looking in at the windows of a stock hive, a conclusive opinion may be formed as to the state of the colony. If the combs within view be well filled and sealed, it will be safe to consider that the hive contains sufficient stores to carry the bees through the winter. V. MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION. STINGS: THEIR PREVENTION AND CURE. Some of our readers may deem us neglectful in having, as it were, left them to struggle through their bee-keeping novitiate without informing them how to avoid being stung by their docile but well armed flock. Of course, having described the bee-dress, we have supposed that the apiarian was clad, if not "in complete steel," at least, in the head-gear and gloves, which will render him invulnerable. The best safeguard from the anger of bees--as indeed from the malice of men--is a quiet and peaceable spirit. The apiarian will learn to handle his bees not only as "if he loved them,"--as the quaint angler says--but as if he fully believes that the bees love him. This they will do whenever he approaches and treats them gently. There are some cases of exception to this generally peaceable disposition of the bee; sometimes a few bees are dyspeptic, and refuse to be pacified--let their master seek to bribe them never so wisely. Then, too, sometimes the bee-master himself may be dyspeptic, which the unerring olfactory sense of the bees speedily detects, and their anger is immediately aroused. Some few persons, owing to constitutional peculiarities in their breath or insensible perspiration, are objects of constant animosity with bees, who by driving them from the apiary, are giving a physician's advice without charge for a fee. Some of the choicest perfumes used by ladies are offensive to bees: and one may feel very certain that the "fine puss gentleman," who disgusted the brave Hotspur with his "pouncet box" and praise of "'parmaceti for an inward bruise," would have been speedily driven from an apiary in ignominious flight. Occasionally, even a skilful apiarian may inadvertently crush a single bee; such a mischance is detected by the community with much more facility than by any "crowner's quest," and their prompt verdict decrees the summary punishment of the offender. There would be much less fear of stings if it were always remembered that bees are never aggressive. "Defence, not defiance," is their motto. They scarcely ever attempt to sting when away from the hive, and very seldom indeed at the time of swarming, for then they are gorged with honey. When molested by angry bees, the safest and best retreat is a green bush. Thrust your head into this, and the bees will soon leave you. Yet some people appear to think they must inevitably be stung if they meddle with bees; and for their sakes it is needful to explain why it is that a sting is painful, and how the wound inflicted by the bee may be cured.