_This makes six inches of physical and feeling pitted against one-fourth of an inch of intellect._ The child of six years has six inches of physical and feeling and one-half an inch of intellect. The child of fourteen has six inches of physical and feeling and but one inch of intellect. _Even at eighteen the proportion is six inches of physical and feeling and but two inches of intellect._ How striking these proportions are when we put them in inches. I would not, however, have you think you can literally measure a child in yards and inches or that they will all measure the same, for no two children develope alike, but in a general way this scale holds good. While you will find some children developing the intellect much more rapidly than others, and more rapidly than is suggested here, still you will find on the whole that this scale of relative proportions is not far out of the way for the average child. I WOULD HAVE YOU STOP FOR A MOMENT AND GET THIS DIAGRAM AND RELATIVE PROPORTIONS WELL FIXED IN YOUR MINDS. Think what these proportions mean and to what constant danger this child is exposed in developing sex abnormality if not disease. If an abnormal sex condition obtains it will surely sooner or later lead to disease. We may therefore conclude that our study is worth while and of priceless value to all young life. The thoughtful study of this diagram convinces us beyond a peradventure that _there is vast danger of harmful and perhaps dangerous sex conditions obtaining without careful and intelligent guiding in the early life of the child_. SIX TO ONE Even at fourteen years of age the proportion of feeling and physical to intellect is as six to one. Where have you ever heard of a general who went out to fight a war with ten thousand men when his enemy had sixty thousand? He might make a momentary dash with such a force, but in the end he would be overcome. Still we allow our children to grow up with these odds against them and we seem to be entirely thoughtless as to the danger they are in. THE MELTING POWER OF THOUGHT Are you asking, why the human organism was not so constructed that the intellect would always be the dominant factor in the life? Had this been done there would be no possibility of the organism ever coming to perfection, for the impulses that are sent out from the inner life of man through the brain at the upper end of the spine are so powerful and so finely attenuated that they would entirely destroy the physical body before it has time to become strong and tense and able to carry them. _If the intellectual impulses of a grown man or woman were sent through the life of a child the body would be melted just as the fine wire is by a heavy voltage of electricity._ God was wise in creating this sex nerve center, or physical brain, by which the organism builds and paints in glorious beauty and charming grace the wonderful machine, the human body, and makes it strong and tense so that when the work is complete the ego or spirit of man will have a perfect instrument through which to manifest itself to the world and perform its mission and live its life in highest nobleness upon the earth. Because of these facts _God has wisely wrapped the intellectual faculties of the child within its life, as he does the rose-buds in the rose-bush, that when the body work is completed, that crown of all His creation, the self conscious life of man, may manifest itself in all its glory through a perfect instrument and that instrument remain strong and proficient through the years_. We may add this further suggestion to make our point clear. In our statement of the slow growth of the intellect as compared to the other two elements of being, we are dealing with the reasoning faculties and not with memory, which is quite another element and is not dangerous to the physical development, and may show a marked unfoldment at quite an early age. IMPULSE AND VIBRATION Having got these relative proportions well in our minds we may for a brief time give our attention to an important scientific fact which is necessary to our study. Our lives are entirely controlled by impulses which originate in various parts of our personalities. Sometimes the impulse comes from our bodies; again the feelings are in control, and at times the memory asserts itself. Then again the intellect is the dominating factor. OF THIS WE MAY BE SURE, FROM WHATEVER ELEMENT OF BEING COMES THE STRONGEST IMPULSE, THERE FOR THE TIME BEING IS THE SEAT OF GOVERNMENT. We are also scientifically certain, _that the more finely attenuated an impulse is, and the more rapid the vibrations are which carry such an impulse, the more powerful it is and the more surely will it prevail over the slower impulses carried at a lower rate of vibration_. A current of electricity of high voltage will melt a bar of steel.