* * * * * While this had been going on, a stranger had stepped out of the hotel and sauntered across the lawn, and sat down on the seat erstwhile occupied by Mr Dulcimer. There was nothing in his appearance calculated to draw the special attention of any one to him, and no one seemed to bestow more notice on him than they might have done on any other commonplace tourist. He was a tall, thin man, with sandy hair, and a reddish, close-cropped beard and moustache. An artist who might have scanned his features with a view to painting them, would probably have said that his eyes were too close together, and that they were deeper set in their orbits than is at all common. Their habitual expression, when he was not talking to any one, seemed to be one of listening watchfulness, as though he were continually expecting some tidings, or some strange event to happen of which he might hear the news at any moment. He was dressed in an ordinary tourist suit, with a large, soft felt hat. He sat down on the bench, crossed his legs, and lit a cigarette. He went on smoking for a few moments, as if in contemplative enjoyment of his cigarette. Then he extracted from his pocket a telegram in cipher, which had reached him that morning at a little country post-office some fifty miles away. The telegram was headed, ‘From John Smith, London, to Cornelius Santelle, Post-office, Morsby-in-the-Marsh.’ The stranger proceeded to read the telegram, translating it slowly word by word. “You will take up your quarters at the _Palatine Hotel_, Windermere, at which place you will be joined in the course of to-morrow by B. and K., who will arrive at different times by different trains.”—B. and K. must mean Borovski and Koriloff.—“They will place themselves unreservedly at your disposal, their orders being to take the whole of their instructions from you. Meanwhile, you will make all needful inquiries as instructed, so that no unnecessary time may be lost. You are fully aware of the arrangements that are always made in circumstances of a similar kind.”’ He folded up the telegram and put it away again. ‘Well, here I am at the _Palatine Hotel_, and a very pretty place it is, and quiet—oh, very quiet. Perhaps before next week at this time, the good people—and they all look very good—may have something to talk about—something to wake them up a little, and stir the torpid current of their lives. Who knows?’ Although he spoke his thoughts half aloud, as men sometimes get into the habit of doing who have lived much alone, and have been debarred by circumstances from that amount of human companionship which is needful for every one’s health of mind, yet any one who might have wished to overhear what he was saying, would have had to be in very close proximity to him indeed. It is not impossible that at some period of his life this man may have undergone a long term of solitary confinement, and that his habit of talking aloud to himself dated its origin and growth from that time. Whether this Mr Santelle was an Englishman or a foreigner was a question which might well have puzzled many people, especially those individuals whose travels had never extended beyond their own insular boundaries. If his English differed by certain fine shades from that which a cultured Londoner speaks, it was certainly in no point like the English of Northumberland or Devon. Mr Santelle spoke with very slight traces of an alien accent; the difference in his case consisted chiefly in an almost imperceptible lengthening of some of the vowels, and a slightly more emphatic enunciation of certain syllables over which the native tongue glides as if they had no separate existence. Mr Santelle flung away the end of his cigarette and drew a small memorandum book from his pocket. ‘What was the name of the man I was to ask for?’ he said as he turned over the leaves of the book.—‘Ah, here it is. Jules Decroze, waiter at the _Palatine Hotel_. Good.’ He shut up the book and put it away, and then he turned his head in the direction of the main entrance to the hotel. An open carriage was standing there containing two travellers, who were on the point of departure. There too stood Jules the waiter, superintending the arrangements. ‘Yonder man looks somewhat like the one I want,’ murmured Mr Santelle. ‘We shall soon find out.’ He sat watching till the carriage which held the travellers drove away. Then he held up a finger in readiness to catch the eye of Jules, should the latter look his way. As if unwittingly magnetised, Jules a moment or two later turned and looked in the direction of the stranger. Then the finger beckoned him. He crossed the lawn leisurely with his napkin thrown over his arm after the manner of his class. ‘A votre service, m’sieur,’ he said with a little bow and a smile. He seemed instinctively to recognise that the stranger who had summoned him was not an Englishman. ‘Oblige me with your name, my friend,’ said Mr Santelle in French.