The face of the light-colored tops used on some Studebaker convertible models is made of _Orlon_[4] acrylic fiber and will not shrink, mildew, or stretch as a result of exposure to the elements. These facing materials are bound to a cotton backing material. _Cleaning_ Traffic grime and most other soiling may be removed by washing the top with a sudsy mixture of mild (neutral) soap and warm water. A soft brush may be used if necessary. Strong solvents, naphtha, or carbon tetrachloride are not recommended for cleaning this fabric. _Rear Windows_ of convertible tops are made of a clear plastic material. They should not be wiped while dry since the abrasive particles in the dust will tend to scratch the surface of the plastic. Clean the convertible top rear window by flooding it with cold water and wiping off the dirt with a soft cloth or sponge during the flooding process. [4]Du Pont trade-mark. SERVICE AND ADJUSTMENTS Engine Tune-Up Occasionally your serviceman will recommend an engine tune-up. The frequency of tune-ups depends almost entirely on the amount of driving and the type of driving you do. When you purchase a tune-up, we recommend that you request at least the following operations: 1. Check the manifold heater valve for free operation. 2. Clean and adjust spark plugs; install with new gaskets. 3. Clean carburetor air cleaner. 4. Clean fuel pump bowl and strainer; install with new gasket. 5. Clean inside of distributor cover, cable terminals, and sockets. 6. Tighten cylinder head cap screws to recommended tension. 7. Adjust fan belt. 8. Remove and clean carburetor choke thermostatic control. Replace with new gasket and adjust, if necessary. 9. Check and set ignition timing. 10. Adjust carburetor idle screw with engine at normal operating temperatures. 11. Adjust idle stop screw to produce engine speed corresponding with 8 miles (13 km.) per hour road speed in high gear. Adjustments and Other Service _Carburetor Adjustment for High Altitude_ The carburetor is carefully calibrated to provide efficient operation. Studebaker dealers are acquainted with the adjustments which are needed for high altitude operation. _Brake Adjustment_ The self-adjusting brakes on your car are self-compensating for lining wear and require no adjustment. They are properly set at the factory. With each application of the brakes, however, the linings wear and, after a time, new linings should be installed to provide the maximum braking area and to avoid damage to the brake drums. When the lining needs replacement, the self-adjusting feature ceases to operate. When this occurs, the brake pedal free travel will increase and the driver is warned that the brakes need relining. If your brakes do not operate satisfactorily, see your Studebaker dealer. _Clutch Pedal Travel Adjustment_ Clutch pedal free travel is the distance the pedal moves forward before resistance of the release mechanism is felt. When the free travel is greater than one inch (25,4 mm.) or less than one-half inch (12,7 mm.) adjustment should be made by your Studebaker dealer. _The Hill Holder_ (on cars so equipped) should be checked and adjusted if necessary whenever the clutch pedal travel is adjusted. _Fan Belt Adjustment_ To insure efficient fan, water pump and generator operation, it is important that the fan belt is not over-tightened. Any readjustment should be performed by a Studebaker dealer. _Front Wheel Camber Adjustment_ Camber adjustment is properly set at the factory ½° greater on the driver’s side of the car than on the other side. Should a front end alignment check reveal need of camber readjustment, it should be set as nearly to ¾° on driver’s side and ¼° on the other side as possible. In any setting, the driver’s side camber should be ½° more than the other side. _Body Drain Holes_ All drain holes should be kept open to prevent accumulation of water. The door drain holes are easily cleared with a pen-knife or other flat instrument which can be inserted in the holes and run back and forth a few times to loosen any congestion. Body drain holes should be cleaned by the serviceman. See page 54 for minimum seasonal service recommendations. [Illustration: Criss-cross Tires Regularly. (See page 41)] TECHNICAL REFERENCE DATA If emergency adjustments or repairs must be made at shops other than authorized Studebaker dealerships, ask the repairman to refer to this section of your Owner’s Guide to be sure that he understands the several “special-to-Studebaker” measurements and other service data given below. IGNITION Breaker point gap .020″ (0,508 mm.) (_Check every 10,000 miles_ [_16,090 km._]) Breaker arm tension 17 to 20 oz. (481,95 to 566,99 grams) Spark plug gap .022″-.027″ (0,559-0,686 mm.) Note:—_In normal use, check every 5000 miles (8046 km.) and replace after 10,000 miles (16.090 km.). Under some conditions of operation it may be desirable to clean and adjust spark plugs every 2500 miles (4023 km.)._ Firing order 1-5-3-6-2-4 (_No.