In moving the sights it must be remembered that to move the rear sight to the right will bring the shot to the right, and vice versa, while if the front sight is moved to the right, the arm will shoot to the left. In making the test, first adjust the front sight so that it is in exact alinement with the center of the barrel, and then all corrections may be made by moving the rear sight. The proper way to sight a rifle is to hold the front sight just clear of the notch in the rear sight, with the front bead barely touching the outer ring of the bull’s-eye, at the extreme bottom. This is shown at R, Fig. 3. It is the rule of good rifle shot to “see daylight between the sight and the bull’s-eye.” In any event, do not cover up the front sight by drawing it down into the notch of the rear sight, so that only the top of the bead is visible. Another frequent error is to hold the front sight to cover the bull’s-eye. [Illustration: The Off-Hand, Knee-Support, and Prone Positions in Shooting should be Mastered by the Sportsman. The Diagrams Represent Several Vital Shots, the Moving Target, and the Trajectory of a Rifle Bullet] The sportsman who wishes to become a practical rifle shot should learn how to handle the rifle in the several useful positions, so that he may be able to sight accurately under different conditions. Several of the most widely used positions are shown in the page illustration. The off-hand position, with arm extended, is the most commonly used and best position for the sportsman to practice, for use in the woods. The off-hand, with body rest, or elbow resting on the hip, is good for target shooting. The “Schuetzen” style of holding the rifle, with palm rest, is used only in fine match shooting. The knee-rest position is often useful for the sportsman in stalking game, when it is desirable to expose oneself as little as possible. A steadier aim may be secured, especially if a strong wind is blowing. The prone position is much used by military riflemen, but they are not permitted the muzzle rest, whereas the hunter often uses it. It is easy to learn, and more accurate shooting may be done in this position than in the off-hand or knee-rest positions. For indoor practice at a target, the .22-caliber rifle is best. By fitting up a suitable backstop, shooting may be done safely in the cellar or attic. A satisfactory backstop may be made by fastening a plate of iron into a packing box, 3 ft. square, as shown in Fig. 3. The plate must be set at an angle so that the bullets will be deflected to the bottom of the box. In order that the rifleman may check up his work, it is desirable that a standard target be used. The American standard target, shown in Fig. 3, has been adopted by practically all rifle clubs, and, as the majority of records are made upon it, the sportsman should become familiar with it. The paper targets are inexpensive, and it is easy to draw accurate homemade targets from the original. By the use of disks of black and white paper--known as gummed target pasters--one target may be used several times. If convenient to do so, the novice should shoot a string of shots every day, in the various positions. Do not try to hurry, but shoot deliberately at first, aiming to secure a good average, rather than a few bull’s-eye shots and many wild ones. With reasonable practice, it is not difficult to score eight bull’s-eyes out of ten shots, when using the prone position. Having attained this proficiency, the sportsman may be regarded as a fair shot, and is ready to take up outdoor target practice with the high-power rifle. [Illustration: FIG. 2 J, Mechanism of Lever-Action Repeating Rifle; 2, Breechblock; 7, Cocking Lever; 19, Firing Pin, Front; 21, Firing Pin, Rear; 29, Guard Finger Lever; 34, Hammer; 36, Lifter; 37, Locking Slide; 45, Mainspring Plunger; 46, Mainspring Plunger Seat; 63, Trigger K, Mechanism of Falling-Breechblock, Single-Shot Rifle; L, Gold-Bead Front Sight; M and N, Combination Rear Aperture or Tang Sight, Raised and Folded; O, P, Q, Folding-Leaf Rear Sight, Used as V-Crotched Sight, Straight-Bar Sight, and Folded Flat to Barrel] For outdoor target shooting the .22-caliber, long-rifle cartridge will give very accurate results up to 100 yd. The standard target has a bull’s-eye measuring 6 in. in diameter for 150 yd. Shooting may be tried for a while at a fixed range, then the target may be moved to an unknown distance and angle, and the marksman can try his hand at estimating distance. Instead of changing his sights at varying distances, the sportsman should learn how to estimate the distance of the mark and the approximate elevation of the sights to land the bullet within the circle. This is valuable practice for good shooting in the woods. After considerable practice at the stationary target, quick firing may be varied by rigging up a sliding trolley arrangement, like that shown in the page illustration. It is easily made by setting up two poles, properly braced, one about 30 ft.