[Illustration: RFG] [Illustration] THE DOLLS I take them up at morning, and I put them down at night, The large one, and the small one, and the rest; The one that came from London-town, the one from bright Japan, The pretty Paris lady with the fluffy feather fan, And the weary, dreary one I love the best; I take them up with smiling, and I put them down with sighs, And I smooth their hair with loving and with pride, When I put them in the cradle, at the paling of the skies, I sing my very softest at their side. O, a boy may have a fife and gun, a boy may have a drum, A boy may have a helmet with a plume; And a boy may go a-marching all around the house with shouts, And set the echoes ringing in a room; But dolls were made for girls, I guess, and here before the fire, I rock them, rock them, rock them to their rest; The one that came from London-town, the one from bright Japan, The pretty Paris lady with the fluffy feather fan, The nodding one that shuts its eyes as sleepy babies can, And the weary, dreary one I love the best. [Illustration] [Illustration] BREAD AND BUTTER I come in hungry from my play, And ask for things to eat; And think of all the cake we’ve got, So plummy and so sweet; But very gently, mother says, “There’s butter, and there’s bread;” And smiles at me; my hunger leaves, I sigh, and shake my head; For I had only wished for cake, So plummy, and so sweet; And I go back to play again Without a thing to eat. [Illustration] THE COMPANY MAN Sometimes the company man is wide, And sometimes he’s high and thin, But always he smiles, in the parlor there, When brother and I come in; He looks down at us in a grown-up way, With--“How are you children, my dears, today?” Then out to the table we go like a march, With mother-our-dear in the lead; And the company man sits down with smiles And eats very much indeed; We try to be quiet, as good as we can, And we stare all the time at the company man. [Illustration] THE NEW SLIPPERS Sister Alice has some slippers that are really very new, She’s had them from the shoe-shop for just a day or two; They are very, very shiny, of a leather smooth and sleek, With ribbon bows to tie them;--but goodness, how they squeak! And early in the morning they come squeaking down the stairs, They squeak across the polished floor to come to fam’ly prayers; Then out along the garden walk, where morning winds are cool, And when ’tis time for lessons, they go squeaking off to school. But when the shine is worn away, and when the soles are through, And when the little slippers are old instead of new, The squeak will go away from them, and in the house and out, They’ll only make a thumping sound, as Alice walks about. [Illustration] THE LIGHTHOUSE LAMP When at night I draw the curtain, and look out upon the sea, I watch the yellow lighthouse lamp, flash out “One, two and three”; Calling, “Here are reefs to wreck you!” and “Good sailorman, take care! An island here with rocky shores, beware, seafolk, beware! ’Tis I, the lonely lighthouse lamp, that calls you on the deep. I glow when fog is thick and cold, when daylight is asleep. Watch close! Ride sure! Take heart again! Keep safely out to sea! I send my warning out to you, my friendly warning out to you, I flash, ‘One, two and three!’” When morning comes to wake me, and I look across the bay, The lighthouse lamp is fast asleep, all in the light of day. The tall, white tower is holding it. It keeps it safely high. The gray gulls circle round it, and “We bring you dreams!” they cry. “Dreams of the high, white stars at night, dreams of the rocking sea, Dreams of the ships that listen when you call, ‘One, two and three!’ And more than all of these again, are dreams to fill your sleep, Of the homes of sailormen, the waiting homes of sailormen, Whose happiness you keep.” [Illustration] [Illustration] [Illustration] SISTER MARTHA Sister Martha said to me: “Tie your hair with bows, Oh, the way it flies about, when the least wind blows!” Sister Martha fluttered by, in her primrose gown, She’s the very neatest girl, people say, in town. Green and gold the garden lay, set with summer flowers, Sweetly pink and white they grew, fresh from morning showers; Martha took her sewing there; underneath the tree Quiet in the shade she sat, sewing daintily. Just perhaps when I am old, old as Martha looks, I will sew on lacy clothes, read love-story books; Now, behind the goblin bush, where I cannot show, I ruffle up my windy hair, and _pity_ Martha so! [Illustration] A PLAINT When I have grown a yard or so I’ll be a pirate, that I know, And capture on the stormy sea Ships full of coffee and of tea. For it is quite a shame, I think, When such good things are had to drink That only grown folks get a cup; How glad I’ll be when I grow up! [Illustration] [Illustration] THE FAT LITTLE CLOUD Little Eldora made some bread, And set it to rise in a pan; After a while it began to grow, As only good bread-dough can.