Is something broken—a wheel?” He pulled in the horses, which had almost stopped of their own accord. “It isn’t a wheel,” said Tommy. “It’s my bat. A wheel ran over it, and it’s broken.” “What, the wheel?” cried the man. “Don’t tell me the wheel is broken!” “No, it’s my bat,” answered Tommy, and he spoke sorrowfully, for he had saved up his spare change for some time to buy that bat, and he liked it very much. “Oh, your bat!” exclaimed the man. “That’s too bad! Wait, I’ll get it for you, and maybe you can mend it.” “The ball, too,” exclaimed Tommy. “That fell.” “Yes, I see the ball. That rolled to one side and isn’t hurt a bit. But that bat—well, maybe you can put some wire on it,” and the moving man handed the horse reins to Tommy. “Do you want me to hold them?” asked the boy. “Sure. They’ll stand steady. Just hold the lines from slipping, and I’ll get the bat for you.” Tommy Tiptop felt very proud as he sat there on the high seat, holding the reins of the four horses, and he looked over the side to watch the man pick up the ball and bat. The ball was found first, for that had merely rolled into the dust. Then the man called out: “Too bad! The bat is broken in three pieces, and it isn’t worth mending. Never mind. I think I’ve got an old bat at home, and the next time I’m in Riverdale I’ll bring it to you.” “Will you, really?” asked Tommy, and he did not feel so sorry now. The man climbed up to the high seat again, and, taking the reins, called to the horses. They stepped out slowly, for there was quite a hill in front of them, and they knew that it would be hard work getting up it. “Well, if that’s the only accident we have we’ll be lucky,” remarked the moving man as he cracked his whip. “This place is a little farther than I thought it was. I don’t believe we’re going to make it before one o’clock.” “Maybe they won’t save any dinner for me,” exclaimed Tommy. “Oh, I guess they will. If they don’t, you can have some of my lunch. I have a whole pail full, that my wife put up for me this morning, and there’s more than I need. Don’t worry.” They were at the foot of the hill now, and the horses settled themselves into the collars to pull the heavy van up the slope. Suddenly there was a cracking sound, and the van gave a lurch. It settled down on one side, as though one of the wheels had gone into a hole. “Look out!” yelled the man. He grabbed Tommy, and only just in time, or our hero would have fallen off. But Tommy had a glimpse of what had happened. “It’s the wheel this time!” he cried, as the horses came to a stop. “What about it?” asked the man, as he got ready to go down. “It came off, and it rolled over in the bushes. It isn’t broken, but it came off.” “Just my luck!” cried the man. “Talk about accidents, and they’re sure to happen. The nut came loose, and the wheel rolled off. Is the axle broken? I mean the black piece of iron sticking out, that the wheel goes on. Is that broken?” “No,” reported Tommy, taking another look. “That’s all right.” “Then it isn’t so bad, if I can find the nut that holds the wheel on. We’ll have to look for it. Wait now, I’ll help you get down.” It was not easy to get off the high seat of the van, all tilted to one side as it was, but they managed it. “Now, we’ll see if we can find the nut,” suggested the moving man, when he had looked at the axle and made sure that it was not broken. It had dug itself away down into the dirt of the road, though. So Tommy and the man looked all around for the nut, but they could not find it. It had probably come off some time before the accident happened, and was lying far back in the road. “I ought to have an extra nut,” went on the man, as he poked about in the dust and bushes with a stick. “Now I’m in a pretty pickle!” “Why, can’t we go on to Riverdale?” asked Tommy. “No, not a step. I’ve got to go to the nearest blacksmith shop and get a nut. We’ll have to give the horses their dinners, and let them stay here in the shade,” and the man went over and began unhitching the animals. Tommy noticed that there were nose-bags filled with hay and oats on the back of the van. “The horses will have a good dinner and a rest,” said the moving man. “Yes,” replied Tommy, slowly, “but what about you and me? I—I’m afraid I’m hungry!” “Shouldn’t blame you a bit,” replied the moving man. “I am myself. But don’t worry. I’ve got a big pail full of lunch, and we’ll have a regular picnic here—you and I—and then, after we eat, I’ll go see if I can find a blacksmith shop and get a nut.” After putting the nose-bags on the horses’ heads and tying the animals to a fence, in the shade of a big tree, the moving man got out a big tin dinner pail from under the van seat. “Now we’ll have a fine meal,” he exclaimed. “My wife always puts me up a big lunch when I take moving loads out into the country. I know there are sandwiches and pie, and I’m pretty sure there are cookies. And in the top part of the pail there is, most likely, some rich milk. Oh, but we’ll have a fine dinner, even if we did have an accident!” So he opened the pail.