And just remember this, that no woman ever lived who couldn’t marry some man if she wanted to. She will not marry because she is not content to accept any old thing. ¶ It is always a question of what man. And as women more and more are able to care for themselves—and this is the one sure economic tendency of the times—they will more and more cease being willing to swear to honor, love and obey one man for ninety-nine years. Yet the mother instinct will not die on that account. The race will not perish ❦ The independence of women will make them better mothers. Their children will be stronger in brain and body, cleaner, abler, firmer in the ability to discover and decide for the right. But Free Motherhood must be respected. ¶ The word “illegitimate” is now pretty nearly banished, since we have discovered that God smiles upon the freeborn child as upon none other. William the Conqueror, Theodoric the First, Erasmus, Jean Dunois, Leonardo da Vinci, the Empress Josephine, Alexander Hamilton, Abraham Lincoln, and scores of other intellectual kings that might be named, have redeemed the “small and select class” from the unmanicured finger of shame ❦ We no longer look askance upon the offspring; as for the father we smile away his “past” as a mere peccadillo, and he becomes a deacon in the church—a pillar of society. The mother, however, Society still spits upon as one polluted. ¶ This will not always be so. The very fact that I am now writing on the subject, and that several hundred thousand gentle men and women—the very intellectual pick of the world—will read my words, argues progress. Others, too, are writing. The world is changing—all things are being made new ❦ The crime of orthodoxy is its lack of faith. It believes too little. What we want is not a belief in one “immaculate conception,” but a fixed and firm faith in the fact that whenever and wherever a mother holds in her arms a babe, hugging it to her heart, crooning to it a lullaby, there is God. ¶ When this time comes the State will provide a pension for every mother who cares for her babe. ¶ As an economic move, this will be cheaper than maintaining orphan asylums. The child will be loved, not institutionalized. It will be a better citizen. But best of all, we will wipe away the tears of the mother. We will rejoice with her that a man is born into the world ❦ We will extend gladness and congratulation, not hypocritical sighs, snarling sneers and sour faces. ¶ Froebel spoke of the “little souls fresh from God” ❦ And so, too, must we; and when we do we will cease regarding the mother, the vehicle of transport, as a being to be shunned and maligned ❦ Rather, the miracle of Motherhood will be reverenced; and this will be a great moral uplift to all fathers as well as to mothers. Thus will the whole race be purified, benefited, strengthened and carried forward toward the Divine Ultimate ❦ [Illustration] [Illustration] Why I Am a Philistine A long and very carefully written letter from an unknown gentleman who signs himself “Retired Professor” has recently reached me. ¶ The Great Obscure favor me quite often with anonymous epistles, but life being short and the wastebasket wide, I seldom reply. Yet now an exception must be made, and I answer “Retired Professor” for the sole and simple reason that he has “retired,” and in retiring has made the world his debtor. Probably no one act of this man’s entire life has been so potent for good as this. He has set all Professors without humor a most precious precedent. ¶ In gratitude, hoping that his example will bear fruit, I reply. ¶ Did space permit I should be glad to print my correspondent’s letter entire, but the gist of his scholarly argument is that the Society of the Philistines is endeavoring to make free-thought universal and paganism popular. He stoutly avers that the ancient Philistines were the enemies of Jehovah, that they worshiped strange gods, and that they were the sworn foes of the Chosen People. ¶ Now this is the sad part: he proves his case. The gentleman explains that he would not have seen _The Philistine_ Magazine had not his daughter, “an unmarried lady of thirty-two,” purchased several copies; but from this on, with his permission, no more numbers of this “infidelic infernal machine” shall enter his house ❦ My heart goes out to all unmarried ladies of thirty-two. Especially so when they have fathers who are irascible; only one worse fate can befall a woman of thirty-two than to have an irascible father, and that is to have a lover who is irate. Still I doubt me not that the daughter of “Retired Professor” will find a way to read _The Philistine_, for booklets laugh at locksmiths! ¶ Yet, ignorance prevails, for is not “Retired Professor” living proof?