O, my Miranda, only such That are compos’d of strength and gentleness In fair proportion mix’d, should e’er essay The sceptre. He that may not rule himself Is of all monarchs least significant. [_Exeunt._ SCENE VI. _A glade in another part of the island with_ FERDINAND _and_ MIRANDA _observed seated at the upper end thereof. Nearer at hand a group of Athenian citizens. Enter_ BOTTOM, _wearing an ass’s head_. BOTTOM. Masters, you will marvel to behold me here, but the very truth of the matter is that I did fall asleep, and being asleep I did dream, and as I did lie a-dreaming I was in a manner translated to this place, which methinks is an island, for I did espy much water anear as I was brought hither. But, masters, I do marvel much to look upon you here also. FRANCIS FLUTE. Methinks, friend Bottom, you are not the sole wight in Athens esteemed worthy translation. ROBIN STARVELING. How an’ we be not translated either? PETER QUINCE. Robin Starveling speaks well and to the centre of the matter. Know then, good bully Bottom, we are translated as yourself, but methinks you have lost more in the translating than have we; is’t not e’en so, masters all? ALL. Right, good Peter Quince. BOTTOM. I have lost nothing that should cause you envy, good friends all, and so I assure you. [_Brays loudly_] What say you then to my voice? Is my voice perished? TOM SNOUT. No, Nick Bottom. BOTTOM. I thank you, good Tom Snout, and to show you that I am the same Nick Bottom, however my visage may appear altered, for travel doth greatly age a man, as they say, you shall hear me wake the echoes once again. [_Brays a second time, more loudly._ QUINCE. Methinks your voice, good Bottom, has lost somewhat of sweetness. BOTTOM. That’s all one, good Peter Quince, for the simple truth of the matter is that you have no such delicate ear for fine harmonies as I am endow’d with. [_Strokes his ears._ QUINCE. It doth seem so on more properer consideration, and I had an ear that were the parallax of yours ’twere pity of my life. ALL. Indeed, an’ ’twere but pity of your life, Peter Quince. BOTTOM. How say you, masters, shall not we spread ourselves? [_All sit down._ MIRANDA. O Ferdinand, be these all mortal like Ourselves? More surely I did never spy So hideously strange a being such As he who hath the ass’s head. FERDINAND. Nor I. Belike he hath incurr’d some wizard’s spite And, all unwitting, wears this semblance till The wizard’s anger shall be spent. But see, His fellows play upon his ignorance And of his strange beguilement make their sport. BOTTOM. Since it is conceded by all of you that I have lost nothing by translation, doth it not follow, moreover, that I have somewhat gained by that same adventure? FLUTE. In good truth you have gained by somewhat, Nick Bottom. BOTTOM. I were an ass, indeed, an’ I had not. SNUG. And twice an ass, moreover, should he be that would go about to steal it from you. BOTTOM. Methinks that I could munch a savoury salad of thistles with much stomach to’t. QUINCE. Your thistles be a thought too biting for my stomach. BOTTOM. ’Tis but likely. I was ever a choice feeder. But, masters, was there not some matter toward, or have you assembled yourselves but to greet me, and, as ’twere, fittingly? QUINCE. You speak quite to the matter, good Bottom. That is indeed the true end of our beginning. To behold your winsome visage in this unwonted place is great joy to us simple mechanicals, yet we be nevertheless bold to proclaim to you that to shave were not amiss to one of your condition. For but bethink you, and you were to come amongst ladies thus grievously beset with hair would shame us all. SNUG. Mayhap in this strange part of the world ’twould be thought matter for a hanging, and that were, indeed, a most serious business, to my thinking. QUINCE. But an’ we talk of ladies and hangings, moreover, hither comes a monstrous little lady, as ’twere on the instant. _Enter_ TITANIA, _with her train_. TITANIA. Where stays the gentle mortal I adore, Whose voice unto mine ear makes harmonies Celestial, and whose amiable face Enthralls my heart in loving servitude? PEASEBLOSSOM. Yonder he bides. MOTH. ’Mong others of his kind. COBWEB. Alike, yet different. MUSTARDSEED. Chief mortal seen. TITANIA [_espying_ BOTTOM] What angel can compare unto my love? Beauty itself, beholding thee, might swoon For envy, and the eldest sage would yield His place to thee on th’ instant. O my love! [_Winds her arms about his neck._ Thou shalt dwell with me ever. Oberon To thee is but a gaping pig, and thou To him the nonpareil of beauteous youth. BOTTOM. Good mistress atomy, though you show somewhat spare of flesh you are yet of a right comely countenance (and mine eyes do tell me aught without spectacles), and you can speak to the point upon occasion, as the present moment doth signify most auspiciously. TITANIA. O I could list unto thy silver tongue Till Time itself wax’d eld and perished. BOTTOM. How say you, masters?