For this reason the engine will stand more advance with a half open throttle than with a wide open throttle, and in order to secure the proper timing of the ignition due to these variations and to retard the spark for starting, idling and carburetor adjusting, the Delco distributor also has a manual control. [Illustration: Rotor Button Rotor Breaker Cam Timing Adjustment Automatic Weights Advance Lever Fig. 99. Delco Ignition Distributor] The automatic feature of this distributor is shown in Figs. 99 and 100. With the spark lever set at the running position on the steering wheel (which is nearly all the way down on the quadrant), the automatic feature gives the proper spark for all speeds excepting a wide open throttle at low speeds, at which time the spark lever should be slightly retarded. When the ignition is too far advanced it causes loss of power and a knocking sound within the engine. With too late a spark there is a loss of power which is usually not noticed except by an experienced driver or one very familiar with the car and heating of the engine and excessive consumption of fuel is the result. The timer contacts shown at D and C (Fig. 100) are two of the most important points of an automobile. Very little attention will keep these in perfect condition. These are tungsten metal, which is extremely hard and requires a very high temperature to melt. Under normal conditions they wear or burn very slightly and will very seldom require attention; but in the event of abnormal voltage, such as would be obtained by running with the battery removed, or with the ignition resistance unit shorted out, or with a defective condenser, these contacts burn very rapidly and in a short time will cause serious ignition trouble. _The car should never be operated with the battery removed._ [Illustration: 3 AUTOMATIC WEIGHTS DISTRIBUTOR CONTACT BREAKER CAM Fig. 100. Delco Ignition Contact Breaker and Timer] It is a very easy matter to check the resistance unit by observing its heating when the ignition button is out and the contacts in the distributor are closed. If it is shorted out it will not heat up, and will cause missing at low speeds. A defective condenser such as will cause contact trouble will cause serious missing of the ignition. Therefore, any of these troubles are comparatively easy to locate and should be immediately remedied. These contacts should be so adjusted that when the fiber block B is on top of one of the lobes of the cam, the contacts are opened the thickness of the gauge on the distributor wrench. Adjust contacts by turning contact screw C, and lock nut N. The contacts should be dressed with fine emery cloth so that they meet squarely across the entire face. The rotor distributes the high tension current from the center of the distributor to the proper cylinder. Care must be taken to see that the distributor head is properly located, otherwise the rotor brush will not be in contact with the terminal at the time the spark occurs. The distributor head and rotor should be lubricated as described under the heading “Lubrication.” The amount of ignition current required for different speeds is described under the heading “Motoring the Generator.” CHAPTER XXVI STORAGE BATTERY CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION AND CARE The modern storage battery does not produce or generate electrical force. It was designed to carry an extra supply of current in storage to operate lighting and starting systems, and in most cases the current required for ignition is drawn from this supply. [Illustration: Terminal Post Cell Retainer Case Cell Jar Negative Plate Separator Positive Plate Fig. 101. Storage Battery, Sectional View] A storage battery is also called an accumulator, as it accumulates and retains a charge of electrical current for future use. Fig. 101 illustrates a storage battery with a section of the cell retainer case removed to show the location of the cells, their respective order, terminal posts and connections. A section of the cell jar, has also been removed to show the core, which consists of a set of positive and negative plates. The positive plates are inserted between the negative plates and are held in this position through their respective connections to the positive and negative terminal posts. The cell retainer-jars are made of zinc or rubber, and contain an acid and water solution called electrolyte into which the core is entirely immersed. =The Positive and Negative Plates.=--The plates are held from direct contact with each other by a wood or rubber separator. These plates are formed with small sectional compartments called grids, into which a lead compound in paste form is pressed. The positive plates are made of lead oxide (zinc), and are dark gray in color, while the negative plates are made of pure lead, and are light gray in color.