Thom, I do not believe sufficiently in “the cause” to be willing to sign the petition. MRS. THOM. Do you know what petition I mean? MR. MELVIN. Certainly: the petition to the State Legislature for the Enfranchisement of Women Citizens. MRS. THOM. You know about the petition and yet you refuse to subscribe to it! Mildred, dear, this is a question of your future happiness. I might almost say of your future safety. Reflect before it is too late what it means to put yourself in the power of a man who believes in the continued enslavement of women. MR. MELVIN. Oh, Mrs. Thom, you are too severe. If I am in no hurry to see women voting and a reduplication of the ignorant vote, I refuse to be called a Bluebeard. I believe that noble women are inherent queens above the vote, not below it. MRS. THOM. In England they class women with children and lunatics in barring them from political rights. In New York, the Constitution extends the vote to any male citizen over twenty-one years old regardless of whether he is sane or insane. Even a lunatic if he be a male is held superior to a woman. MRS. BROWN. That’s because so many men are a little queer. If votes could be challenged for craziness as well as for illegal residence the watchers at the polls would never finish their tasks. MR. VAN TOUSEL. I want to wish you every happiness, Miss Mildred, but like Mrs. Thom, I feel a little uncertain about your future. A woman who is so strong on the subject of Woman Suffrage as you are ought to marry a man who could sympathize with her. MILDRED. Oh, but Edward does sympathize with me. He has been sympathizing with me all the week. I never met any one who understood me so well. MR. VAN TOUSEL. Perhaps I should have said sympathize in “the cause.” A man and a woman who believe in the same cause when joined together can do so much for its advancement. MILDRED. I will convert him after we are married. MRS. THOM. It will be too late then. Conversion after marriage is like putting yeast in bread after it is baked. It cannot raise the fallen. (_Enter_ SOPHIE SLAVINSKY _and_ BECKER. _The latter a little shamefaced._) KATY. (_Announcing._) Mr. and Mrs. Becker! MILDRED. Oh, Sophie, I am so glad to see you. I want to be the first to tell you of my engagement to Mr. Melvin, since Josephine has already let the cat out of the bag. SOPHIE. How lovely! Let me kiss you. Marriage is true happiness for a woman. We must have a little talk together, you and I. (_Turning to others._) How do you all do, you dear good people. MRS. TILSBURY. How do you do, Miss Slavinsky. SOPHIE. Mrs. Becker, please, Mrs. Theodore Halowell Becker. We have just been married by the Mayor and I stopped here to see Mildred before we start on the honeymoon. _Nicht Wahr_, dearest? (_To Becker._) MRS. THOM. You have married that man—that monster who tramples the rights of women beneath his feet like worms in the dust! SOPHIE. We have—what you call it?—swapped votes, like two men, a Republican and a Democrat, when they want to go play golf on election day. They two agree, not one will vote. Then everything is cancelled. So Mr. Becker and me—he is a great big opponent to the cause and I am a strong advocate. If we both keep quiet the result is zero, see? MRS. BROWN. Ah, yes, you and Mr. Becker have become two adjacent hemispheres. SOPHIE. (_After a slight pause._) Yes, every brain consists of two hemispheres, and I am proud to be a hemisphere of Mr. Becker’s great, big, splendid brain. MILDRED. This is such a beautiful surprise. Sophie, dear, do tell us how it all happened. SOPHIE. Well, you see that day when Mr. Becker met me here, he came to the theatre the next night to see if I really usher and he bought his ticket so late he was obliged to take a way back and sit down seat; almost under the—what do you call it?—oh, yes, the undress circle where people wear their business clothes. Just as I had shown him his place and had pushed down his seat and made him comfortable, and had given him a programme, which he had forgot to take, and was going to help him off with his overcoat, I happened to look up, and there was a big pair of opera-glasses falling down from the undress circle right towards his dear little bald spot, as if it were a bull’s-eye, and I put out my arm and it hit my arm instead of his head and made one great blue spot. It is there yet, see. (_Bares arm._) MILDRED. You saved Mr. Becker’s life and then he married you! How romantic! It is just like Edward and me, only it was Edward that saved my life that day of the Parade. MR. BECKER. Pardon me, Miss Tilsbury, you women—— SOPHIE. Dear! MR. BECKER. Except you, Sophie, you women all generalize from one example. Sophie did probably save my life, but Mr. Melvin can hardly be said to have saved yours. SOPHIE. Is he not sweet? He has promised now whenever he says “you women” to make of me an exception. MILDRED. But go on with your story, Sophie. What happened next when you had saved Mr. Becker’s head from the opera-glasses? MRS. BROWN. Did the owner ever claim them? SOPHIE. I don’t know. I returned them to the lost and found office.