The transfer of cargo, so far as the Bronx was concerned, was completed. It appeared that the flag-officer was hurrying the departure of the steamer on her mission, whatever it was. He had just had a long talk with Corny, and doubtless there was danger that the object of the cruise might be defeated by delay. In a short time the Bronx was under way, headed to the eastward, in accordance with her verbal orders, for the sealed envelope was not to be opened till nine o'clock in the evening, as Christy learned from Mr. Flint. The deck was in charge of the second lieutenant, who was seeing that everything was put in order. But it might have been observed that he was more familiar with the men than was his habit. For the first time since he came on board, Corny went below to take a look at his quarters, Dave bearing his valise before him. At the same time Mr. Galvinne presented himself in the ward room to take possession of the stateroom of the first lieutenant, which was the farthest forward on the starboard side. It had been Christy's room during his service in the Gulf, though he had made himself at home in the captain's cabin when he was acting commander on the voyage from New York. "This is my cabin, is it?" said Corny, as he followed the steward into the apartment. "I think you ought to know it by this time, Captain Passford," answered Dave; and the remark was enough to condemn the impostor in the opinion of the servant. "You lived in here when you were in command of the vessel." "All right. You may go into the ward room and ask Mr. Galvinne to come in here," added Corny, who did not feel quite at home in the cabin, and was in mortal terror of committing some indiscretion in his unaccustomed position. "Invite the first lieutenant to the captain's cabin," said Dave. "Yes, sir;" and the steward left the cabin. It was some little time before Mr. Galvinne presented himself, for probably he did not feel bound to obey the orders of the bogus captain with especial promptness. However, he came after a quarter of an hour, and seated himself familiarly in an arm-chair at the table. He had the bearing of the superior officer, to which Corny made no objection. "We are all right so far," said Corny. "Perhaps we are; but you talk too much by half, Passford, and I have been dreading that you would make a slip of some kind," replied Mr. Galvinne rather crustily. "You were as stupid as a Kentucky mule when you stopped to talk with Byron in the waist." "And you were as stupid as an Alabama mule when you snapped at me for doing so in the presence of some of the sailors," replied Corny, with considerable spirit; and Christy, who heard all that was said, was glad to have him maintain the dignity of the family in his new situation. "I hope you will not make a donkey of yourself before we have finished this business," added the executive officer for the time being. "Now have you looked at your orders?" "I have not; they are sealed orders, and I am not to open them till nine o'clock this evening," replied Corny. "I believe you have lost all the wits you ever had, Passford," said Mr. Galvinne contemptuously. "If I did, you did not pick them up." "I am not going to banter with you, Passford. Where are your orders?" demanded the first lieutenant in a tyrannical manner. "They are in my pocket," replied Corny sourly. "Hand them over to me, and let us have no more fooling." "I will take care of the orders myself." "What! Are you not going to give them to me?" demanded Mr. Galvinne, apparently as much in astonishment as in anger. "Not till you change your tone. I wish you to understand that I am in command of this ship, and I have my commission in my pocket. I intend to be treated with decency at least." "Well, this is pleasant; and it will be my duty to report your conduct to my superior officer. In command of this ship! Why, you don't know enough to lay off the course of the ship, or even to box the compass." "I know enough to understand when I am treated like a gentleman. Change your manners, or I will order you to leave my cabin. You talk to me as though I were a small boy, and had nothing to do with the enterprise in which we are engaged," returned Corny. "Do you expect me to obey your orders?" demanded the executive officer in a sneering tone. "If you don't, I will send for the second lieutenant and a file of men to put you out of my cabin." There was a silence for a few moments. "This will never do, Passford," said the tyrannical officer. "I don't think it will, Galvinne. Behave like a gentleman, and we shall have no difficulty," added Corny. "Will you permit me to see your orders, Mr. Passford?" said the officer. The breach was closed, and Corny produced the sealed envelope. CHAPTER XIII THE OPENING OF THE SECRET ORDERS Christy listened with interest to the conversation in the captain's cabin, though so far it had afforded him no information in regard to the present situation, and it was hardly likely to do so, for he had already been told by Mr.