Laurie thought he had never smelt anything so delicious as the odor of the sweet clover grass that hung down between the boards of the flooring of the hay loft, and when a mouse would scurry away, he would laugh at its being afraid of him. Outside in the gathering twilight, the pigeons were wheeling and circling overhead, and dipping to the ground for the corn that lay scattered among the pebbles. High overhead, was the dove-cote on the wagon house. "Do the pigeons fly far away, Uncle Sam? and what are they always doing?" asked Laurie when he had watched them for some time. "They fly ever so far away, Laurie," answered Uncle Sam, "but always come back again. Some pigeons you know, the carrier pigeons, carry messages, but I do not think this kind is used for that purpose." Meantime Aunt Laura had come out to scatter corn to the chickens, who, seeing her approach, hurried to meet her on all sides, until she stood surrounded by the pretty feathered creatures. Laurie begged for a handful of corn to throw to them, but started back in dismay, when an old turkey-gobbler reached up and picked a grain out of his hand. "What a rude old bird," he said, "but I wasn't a bit afraid of him, he only surprised me," he explained to Aunt Laura quickly, for fear she would think him timid. Just then the turkey, who was a pompous sort of creature, cocked his head on one side, and looked at Laurie for a moment as though he understood, then turned away. [Illustration: _"What a rude old bird," said Laurie._] "I'm afraid you have hurt his feelings," said Aunt Laura, "you see he is not used to little boys calling him names"--"Well, I'll not do it any more, I'm sure I didn't know he minded," replied Laurie, "but still," he continued, "it's not as if he really understood, he couldn't unless he were a fairy--but turkeys, and cows and pigeons on farms are not fairies, are they, Aunt Laura?" "I can't tell you that, Laurie," said Aunt Laura, "for I've never seen any fairies--some animals are more sensible than others, and some like to be petted, and are fond of being with people--if that is what you mean." "No, that is not what I mean altogether, it's only part of what I mean," he answered; "if the turkey-gobbler wasn't a fairy, it ought not to make any difference to him, my calling him rude or not, for he couldn't understand, but he looked at me in such a funny way, with his head on one side, that he must have known what I was saying." [Illustration: Laurie taking off his shoes and stockings] CHAPTER III. "I couldn't be a bit lonely here, Aunt Laura," he said, as he was sitting on the floor that night beside his bed, struggling to take off his shoes and stockings all by himself, "you see even when you and Uncle Sam are too busy for me to 'sturb you, I can just go out and play with the chickens, and talk to the little calf, and 'pretend.' "It's lots of fun 'pretending,'" he continued, "I can pretend, oh! ever so many things--I learned to do it when I had the mumps, and had to stay in bed. It wasn't half so bad the having to stay in bed then. I used to pretend I was a magician sometimes, and could turn my toys into real soldiers, and real ships, and it used to be lots of fun." "I don't think we shall ever be too busy for you to disturb us, Laurie," said Aunt Laura. "Oh, may I peep into that funny little door?" Laurie exclaimed, as he caught sight of a tiny closet over the mantelpiece. "Where does it go to, does it go into the chimney?" Aunt Laura laughed, "No, it does not go into the chimney, though everybody who sees it thinks so at first." And indeed that seemed the only place that it could open into, for it was exactly over the fireplace, where the chimney must be. To be sure the fireplace had been boarded up and painted white, and was never used now; in its stead a great iron stove like a box, where corn cobs were burned, was used in winter, for that made the room much warmer, but certainly the little closet had been built at the same time as the house, when the fireplace and the chimney had been built. "I don't exactly know where it goes to, Laurie," said Aunt Laura, "it has always been there. When I was a little girl I used to think it was a door into another part of the house, that I did not know about, where I had never been, and I used to stand on a chair and peep in, but it was too dark to see in all the way. I keep some of my jellies in it now," she added, and as she spoke, she opened the door, and showed him a tempting row of tumblers, filled with clear amber jelly, neatly covered with white paper. Even after Aunt Laura had tucked him into bed, and given him a good-night kiss, Laurie kept wondering about all he had seen--there was so much to think about.