Vacancy.--For the office of governor there is in every state a line of succession appointed in its constitution. By reference to the comparative table, it will be seen that there is considerable uniformity in the order of succession. In case of a vacancy in any of the other elective offices, the most usual plan is for the governor to make a temporary appointment until a new election can be held. For an appointive office, the appointment is usually good until the end of the next legislature or for the remainder of the term. Salary.-The salary attached to each office is usually fixed by law, subject to the constitutional limitation that it shall not be increased nor diminished during the term of the incumbent. See page 294. The Duties of the Officers. Governor.--The great, the characteristic duty of the governor is to see that the laws are faithfully executed. Since this may sometimes require force, he is made by the constitution commander-in-chief of the military forces of the state, and may call out these forces to execute the laws, suppress insurrection, or repel invasion. He appoints, "by and with the advice and consent of the senate," most of the important state officers and boards, as provided by law. The advice of the senate is rarely if ever asked. But its consent must be obtained to make any such appointment valid. As his duties continue through the year and have to do with the whole state, and as he may require the opinion, in writing, of the principal officer in each of the executive departments upon any subject pertaining to the duties of their respective offices, he is supposed to know more than any other person about the situation and needs of the state as a whole; and it is, therefore, made his duty to communicate by message to each session of the legislature such information touching the affairs of the state as he deems expedient. The regular message is sent at the opening of the legislative session, and special messages at any time during the session as they seem to be needed. On extraordinary occasions he may convene the legislature in extra session. To place another obstruction in the way of hasty legislation, the governor (except in Delaware, North Carolina, Ohio, and Rhode Island) has a limited veto. [Footnote: See comments on the president's veto, page 150.] In the administration of justice mistakes are some times made. An innocent person may be found guilty, or a guilty person may be sentenced too severely, mitigating circumstances appearing after sentence is passed. For these and other reasons, there should be power somewhere to grant reprieves, commutations, and pardons. In most of the states this power is vested in the governor. It does not, for obvious reasons, extend to cases of impeachment. Many thoughtful people, including some governors and ex-governors, question very seriously the wisdom of this absolute assignment of the pardoning power. One suggestion by way of limitation is that no pardon issue except upon recommendation of the judge of the court in which conviction was wrought. Lieutenant Governor.--As may be seen by reference to the comparative table, several of the states have no such officer. The office is designed simply to save confusion in case of a vacancy in the office of governor, in which case the lieutenant governor acts as governor during the vacancy. To give him something to do the lieutenant governor is _ex officio_ president of the senate. [Footnote: In case of a vacancy in this office, the senate, in most states, chooses one of its own number to act as president _pro tempore_.] In most of the states, he has no voice in legislation, except a casting vote in case of a tie. But in some states, as indicated in the comparative table on page 294, he can debate in committee of the whole. State Treasurer.--This officer has duties and responsibilities similar to those of a county treasurer. Attorney General.--This officer has two chief duties. He represents the state in suits at law, and may be called upon to aid county attorneys in criminal prosecutions. When invited to do so he gives legal advice to the legislature and to the executive officers, on matters pertaining to their official duties. Secretary of State and Auditor.--The county auditor, you remember, has three general lines of duty: 1. To act as official recorder and custodian of papers for the county board. 2. To be bookkeeper for the county, and in connection therewith to audit all claims against the county, and issue warrants on the county treasurer for their payment. 3. To apportion the taxes. The corresponding duties in the state, except recording the acts of the legislature, which is done by legislative clerks, are in most states divided between two officers, the secretary of state and the state auditor or comptroller. The secretary of state has, as his characteristic duty, the preservation or custody of state papers, acts of the legislature, etc.