"Ter ther west'ard. But why d'yer want all or this infermation?" "Simply became he is one of the James Boys." "Holy--jumpin'--jingo!" gasped the man. "He intends to rob that stage!" "Oh, thunder! wot er big fool I wuz ter post him!" "We will block his game. You keep mum." "Yes kin jist bet I will!" Jack returned aboard the Terror, and told his friends all he had learned, and a consultation was held. It was then seven o'clock. They had but little time to waste, "Our plan to save the people in that stage coach from robbery is a very simple one," said Jack. "We must run ahead and intercept them." "Supposin' them 'ere lundsharks is on ther road now? They will sight us again along ther trail," said Tim. "We can make a detour," replied Jack. "The only place they are apt to use to waylay the coach will be along the ledge mentioned by the storekeeper." "Fer sure." assented Fritz, "Ach, I vish me dot ve vos fighdin' dem now! Let her gone, Shack!" The inventor started the Terror off. It had begun to rain. There was every indication of a wet night. Jack had informed himself about the roads. Both he and Tim put on their rubber clothing and occupied the front seat, where they managed the wheel. A detour was made, and several miles further along they struck into the high road again. "If the stage-coach in any manner resembles the Terror," said the young inventor, as they ran along, "I think I know of a way in which we can substitute this vehicle for it and fool the bandits, should they waylay her." "Decoy 'em, eh?" "Yes. We can easily disguise this coach." "By hitchin' ther stage horses onter it, yer kin do it." "I'll make the venture anyway, if I can meet the stage." "When I wuz aboard o' ther frigate Wabash, we once played that ere trick on a pirate," said Tim. "Yer see, it happened---" But Fritz heard him. And produced his accordeon. Its horrible tones rang out. Tim stopped and was just going to expostulate, when Jack put an end to the playing by saying: "Stop that, Fritz!" "But dot yarn---" "The road agents may hear it." That settled it; the music ceased. It made Tim chuckle, and he said: "Gosh blame yer fat mug, I'll spin ther yarn anyway now! As I wuz a-tellin' yer, we wuz arter a pirate, an' as a passin' ship captain told us he seen ther lubber a-hidin' in a bay, we made up our minds ter disguise ther frigate so's ter haul up inter gun range o' ther lubber. So we sot ter work, an' paintin' her white, we altered her rig, an' bore down on ther bay. In we went, but ther pirate had gone. Whar? Nobody knowed. We was disappinted. Whar wuz we ter look next? No one knowed. So we sailed away. Night fell. We hadn't gone far afore we sighted her ten leagues away ter ther---" "Say! You can't see thirty miles at night." "I meant to say three leagues---" "Nor three leagues---" "One league then, gosh blame it!" "That's better." "Waal, we sighted her b'arin' down on us." "And then?" asked Jack, smilingly. Why, we let her git right up ter us, thinkin' she had a easy wictim. Then we turned on her to fire, an' blow her ter pieces. Wot wuz our horror ter find as our powder got so wet we couldn't use it. Bein' as ther guns wuz useless, wot did we do? Perpared ter board ther lubber. Up ter her we dashed. Over flew ther grapplin' irons. "On her deck swarmed her crew. Down in her hold they chased ther pirates. But that wuz only a ruse on thar part. As soon's our crew went below, up came ther lubbers through ther hatch, an' fastened our marines down in ther hold. They wuz prisoners. I alone wuz lef aboard ther Wabash. Seein' 'em makin' a rush fer our deck I grabbed a ax an' cut ther grapplin's. We drifted apart afore they could board ther frigate. Seein' as all wuz lost onless I licked ther swabs, I manned ther guns an' gave 'em broadside ar ter broadside. I smashed thar ship ter pieces. She went down never ter rise again. Most o' her crew wuz killed. Them wot wuzn't swum on ther sea. Then I amused myself firin' shots at thar heads. I took 'em off as clean as a whistle every time I let 'em have it. In jest four minutes by ther clock they was all gone. Turnin' ter my messmates---" "Confined in the pirate's hold, they all went to the bottom with the ship," said Jack, quietly. "I--oh--ouch!" "The powder was so wet you couldn't use it. But in spite of this you did some remarkably good shooting, didn't you, Tim?" "Wha'--wha--what d'yer mean?" feebly stammered the old sailor. "Just what you said," laughed Jack. "I must a fergot about sayin' that." "Very likely. Will you acknowledge now that I've got you?" "Ay, ay. There's no help for it." "In a big lie?" "But, my lad---" "Tell the truth once in your life!" "Waal, I owns up," groaned Tim. It was a severe hardship to do it. But there was no help for him, he realized. Jack burst into a hearty peal of laughter. The sheriff and the Dutchman, inside the stage, had heard all that passed, and they fairly yelled over Tim's discomfiture. "Nipped that time, Tim," laughed Timberlake. "Shiminey Christmas, ditn'd he got it by der neck!" grinned Fritz.